"Then, how do you know?"
"I see it, I deduce it.
How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?"
"My dear Holmes," said I, "this is too much.
"How often?"
"Well, some hundreds of times."
"Then how many are there?"
"How many?
I don't know."
"What do you imagine that it means?"
"I have no data yet.
What do you deduce from it?"
I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.
"What do you make of that?"
asked Holmes.
Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of that?"
His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.
"You had my note?"
he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.
Whom have I the honour to address?"
"You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman.
Why should I attempt to conceal it?"
"Why, indeed?"
murmured Holmes.
But how--" "Was there a secret marriage?"
"None."
"No legal papers or certificates?"
"None."
If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to prove their authenticity?"
"There is the writing."
"No sign of it?"
"Absolutely none."
And what does she propose to do with the photograph?"
"To ruin me."
"But how?"
"I am about to be married."
"And Irene Adler?"
"Threatens to send them the photograph.
"You are sure that she has not sent it yet?"
"I am sure."
"And why?"
"Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.
Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?"
"Certainly.
"Then, as to money?"
"You have carte blanche."
"Absolutely?"
"I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph."
"And for present expenses?"
The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.
"And Mademoiselle's address?"
he asked.
"Was the photograph a cabinet?"
"It was."
"What is it?"
"It's quite too funny.
"And what of Irene Adler?"
I asked.
What was the relation between them, and what the object of his repeated visits?
Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress?
If the former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.
"'What then?'
I asked.
"This is a very unexpected turn of affairs," said I; "and what then?"
"Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced.
"Which are?"
"Some cold beef and a glass of beer," he answered, ringing the bell.
"You don't mind breaking the law?"
"Not in the least."
"Nor running a chance of arrest?"
"Not in a good cause."
"But what is it you wish?"
"When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.
"And what then?"
"You must leave that to me.
You understand?"
"I am to be neutral?"
"To do nothing whatever.
You quite follow me?"
"Entirely."
I hope that I have made myself clear?"
"I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street."
Now the question is, Where are we to find the photograph?"
"Where, indeed?"
"It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her.
"Where, then?"
"Her banker or her lawyer.
Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.
"But how will you look?"
"I will not look."
"What then?"
"I will get her to show me."
"Is the poor gentleman much hurt?"
she asked.
May we bring him in, marm?"
"Surely.
"You have the photograph?"
"I know where it is."
"And how did you find out?"
"She showed me, as I told you she would."
What else could she do?
And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.
"How did that help you?"
"It was all-important.
"And now?"
I asked.
"And when will you call?"
"At eight in the morning.
"But you have hopes?"
"I have hopes."
When?"
"Yesterday."
"But to whom?"
"To an English lawyer named Norton."
"And why in hopes?"
"Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance.
"Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?"
said she.
"Do you mean that she has left England?"
"Never to return."
"And the papers?"
asked the King hoarsely.
"Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was?
Would she not have made an admirable queen?
Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?"
"From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty," said Holmes coldly.
Holmes?"
he asked.
"Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?"
"I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that, especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin."
But the writing?"
"What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?"
"Well, but China?"
"The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China.
Wilson?"
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column.
"What on earth does this mean?"
I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.
"It is a little off the beaten track, isn't it?"
said he.
Wilson?"
"Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; "I have a small pawnbroker's business at Coburg Square, near the City.
"What is the name of this obliging youth?"
asked Sherlock Holmes.
But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?"
"Why, indeed?
You seem most fortunate in having an employé who comes under the full market price.
"He is still with you, I presume?"
"Yes, sir.
"'Why that?'
I asks.
"'Why, what is it, then?'
I asked.
"'Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?'
he asked with his eyes open.
"'And what are they worth?'
I asked.
Are you a married man, Mr. Wilson?
Have you a family?'
"I answered that I had not.
When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?'
"'Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business already,' said I.
"'What would be the hours?'
I asked.
'And the pay?'
"'Is 4 pounds a week.'
"'And the work?'
"'Is purely nominal.'
"'What do you call purely nominal?'
"'Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the whole time.
"'And the work?'
"'Is to copy out the "Encyclopaedia Britannica."
Will you be ready to-morrow?'
"'Certainly,' I answered.
"To an end?"
"Yes, sir.
Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door?"
"I was staggered, sir.
"'What, the red-headed man?'
"'Yes.'
"'Where could I find him?'
"'Oh, at his new offices.
"And what did you do then?"
asked Holmes.
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement--how long had he been with you?"
"About a month then."
"How did he come?"
"In answer to an advertisement."
"Was he the only applicant?"
"No, I had a dozen."
"Why did you pick him?"
"Because he was handy and would come cheap."
"What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?"
"Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face, though he's not short of thirty.
"Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?"
"Yes, sir.
"He is still with you?"
"Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him."
"And has your business been attended to in your absence?"
"Nothing to complain of, sir.
"Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had left us, "what do you make of it all?"
"I make nothing of it," I answered frankly.
"What are you going to do, then?"
I asked.
"What do you think, Watson?
Could your patients spare you for a few hours?"
"I have nothing to do to-day.
"What then?"
"The knees of his trousers."
"And what did you see?"
"What I expected to see."
"Why did you beat the pavement?"
"My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk.
"Why serious?"
"A considerable crime is in contemplation.
"At what time?"
"Ten will be early enough."
What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Where were we going, and what were we to do?
I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker's assistant was a formidable man--a man who might play a deep game.
"Watson, I think you know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard?
Let me introduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is to be our companion in to-night's adventure."
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?"
The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a very injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones.
"Your French gold?"
"Yes.
"And sit in the dark?"
"I am afraid so.
I hope that you have done what I asked you, Jones?"
"I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door."
"Have you the chisel and the bags?
Great Scott!
"Well, would you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?"
"That is better," said John Clay serenely.
The 4 pounds a week was a lure which must draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?
They put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, the other rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week.
"But how could you guess what the motive was?"
"Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue.
What could it be?
I thought of the assistant's fondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into the cellar.
What could it be, once more?
I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building.
"And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?"
I asked.
"And the ring?"
I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
"And have you any on hand just now?"
I asked with interest.
"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?"
"I did at first," she answered, "but now I know where the letters are without looking."
"You've heard about me, Mr. Holmes," she cried, "else how could you know all that?"
"Never mind," said Holmes, laughing; "it is my business to know things.
If not, why should you come to consult me?"
"I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs. Etherege, whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead.
"Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?"
asked Sherlock Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.
"And your mother is alive?"
"Oh, yes, mother is alive and well.
"Your own little income," he asked, "does it come out of the business?"
"Oh, no, sir.
But this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to prevent?
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all father's friends were to be there.
"No?"
"Well, you know father didn't like anything of the sort.
"But how about Mr. Hosmer Angel?
Did he make no attempt to see you?"
"Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone.
"Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?"
"Oh, yes, Mr. Holmes.
Hosmer--Mr. Angel--was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall Street--and--" "What office?"
"That's the worst of it, Mr. Holmes, I don't know."
"Where did he live, then?"
"He slept on the premises."
"And you don't know his address?"
"No--except that it was Leadenhall Street."
"Where did you address your letters, then?"
"To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called for.
Can you remember any other little things about Mr. Hosmer Angel?"
"He was a very shy man, Mr. Holmes.
"Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank, your stepfather, returned to France?"
"Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back.
"It missed him, then?"
"Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived."
Was it to be in church?"
"Yes, sir, but very quietly.
Your own opinion is, then, that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?"
"Yes, sir.
"But you have no notion as to what it could have been?"
"None."
How did your mother take the matter?"
"She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter again."
"And your father?
Did you tell him?"
"Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and that I should hear of Hosmer again.
As he said, what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving me?
Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine.
And yet, what could have happened?
And why could he not write?
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can't sleep a wink at night."
"Then you don't think I'll see him again?"
"I fear not."
"Then what has happened to him?"
"You will leave that question in my hands.
And your address?"
"No.
Where is your father's place of business?"
"He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street."
Now, what did you gather from that woman's appearance?
Describe it."
"And what else?"
I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by my friend's incisive reasoning.
Would you mind reading me the advertised description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?"
I held the little printed slip to the light.
"Of what?"
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?"
"I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted."
"Well, have you solved it?"
I asked as I entered.
"Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?"
The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door.
"I think that this typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with me for six o'clock?"
"Yes, sir.
Besides, it is a useless expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?"
"On the contrary," said Holmes quietly; "I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr. Hosmer Angel."
where?"
shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.
Now her marriage would mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what does her stepfather do to prevent it?
He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age.
What does her clever stepfather do then?
He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart.
"And how did you verify them?"
"Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration.
"And Miss Sutherland?"
"If I tell her she will not believe me.
It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way: "Have you a couple of days to spare?
Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
"What do you say, dear?"
said my wife, looking across at me.
"Will you go?"
"I really don't know what to say.
"Have you heard anything of the case?"
he asked.
"It is a murder, then?"
"Well, it is conjectured to be so.
"What are they?"
"It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after the return to Hatherley Farm.
"What is the young man's own account of the matter?"
"It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters, though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive.
"The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before he died?
"Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch some allusion to a rat.
"The Coroner: What did you understand by that?
"Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me.
"The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel?
"Witness: I should prefer not to answer.
"The Coroner: I understand that the cry of 'Cooee' was a common signal between you and your father?
"Witness: It was.
"The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you, and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?
"Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.
"A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?
"Witness: Nothing definite.
"The Coroner: What do you mean?
"Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open, that I could think of nothing except of my father.
"'Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?'
"'Yes, it was gone.'
"'You cannot say what it was?'
"'No, I had a feeling something was there.'
"'How far from the body?'
"'A dozen yards or so.'
"'And how far from the edge of the wood?'
"'About the same.'
"'Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?'
"'Yes, but with my back towards it.'
Don't you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little?
Too little, if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury; too much, if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so outré as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident of the vanishing cloth.
"How is the glass?
Twenty-nine, I see.
You have formed some conclusion?
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw?
Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?"
"I think that it is very probable."
"In what way?"
asked Holmes.
"And your father?"
asked Holmes.
"Was he in favour of such a union?"
"No, he was averse to it also.
"May I see your father if I call to-morrow?"
"I am afraid the doctor won't allow it."
"The doctor?"
"Yes, have you not heard?
Poor father has never been strong for years back, but this has broken him down completely.
"Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint?
I am not over-tender of heart, but I call it cruel."
"Have you an order to see him in prison?"
"Yes, but only for you and me."
We have still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?"
"Ample."
Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by his screams, he rushed into the glade?
It was something terrible and deadly.
What could it be?
Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.
What could that mean?
It could not be delirium.
But what could it indicate?
I cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation.
"And what did you learn from him?"
"Nothing."
"Could he throw no light?"
"None at all.
This fellow is madly, insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only a lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office?
No one knows a word of the matter, but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do, but what he knows to be absolutely impossible.
"But if he is innocent, who has done it?"
"Ah!
who?
I would call your attention very particularly to two points.
"An elderly man, I presume?"
said Holmes.
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son to Turner's daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow?
It is the more strange, since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea.
Do you not deduce something from that?"
"We have got to the deductions and the inferences," said Lestrade, winking at me.
"What did you go into the pool for?"
he asked.
What is this, then?
It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.
And this?
Ha, ha!
What have we here?
Tiptoes!
Now where did they come from?"
He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood.
"How do you know, then?"
"The grass was growing under it.
"And the murderer?"
"Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket.
"And leave your case unfinished?"
"No, finished."
"But the mystery?"
"It is solved."
"Who was the criminal, then?"
"The gentleman I describe."
"But who is he?"
"Surely it would not be difficult to find out.
then?"
"Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son.
"What of the rat, then?"
Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table.
"What do you read?"
"ARAT," I read.
"And now?"
He raised his hand.
"But how did you gain them?"
"You know my method.
"But his lameness?"
"The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left.
Why?
Because he limped--he was lame."
Now, how can that be unless it were by a left-handed man?
He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son.
"And the cigar-holder?"
"I could see that the end had not been in his mouth.
"You had my note?"
"Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up.
"And why did you wish to see me?"
He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered.
"What?"
"I am no official agent.
Could I not snap the bond?
I was already a dying and a desperate man.
And what do you intend to do?"
"In view of your health, nothing.
"Why does fate play such tricks with poor, helpless worms?
I never hear of such a case as this that I do not think of Baxter's words, and say, 'There, but for the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.'"
Who could come to-night?
Some friend of yours, perhaps?"
"Except yourself I have none," he answered.
"A client, then?"
"If so, it is a serious case.
"But what is that compared with the number of your successes?"
"It is true that I have been generally successful."
What can this be?'
Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate.
"'What is it, uncle?'
I cried.
What could be the reason of his overpowering terror?
I left the breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.
"'Why, what on earth does this mean, John?'
he stammered.
But what is this written above them?'
"'Put the papers on the sundial,' I read, peeping over his shoulder.
"'What papers?
What sundial?'
he asked.
Where does the thing come from?'
"'From Dundee,' I answered, glancing at the postmark.
'What have I to do with sundials and papers?
I shall take no notice of such nonsense.'
"'Then let me do so?'
"'No, I forbid you.
You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?
I answer, because I was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle's life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another.
"What have you done?"
asked Holmes.
"Nothing?"
"To tell the truth"--he sank his face into his thin, white hands--"I have felt helpless.
"Has he come with you to-night?"
"No.
"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above all, why did you not come at once?"
"I did not know.
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you have placed before us--no suggestive detail which might help us?"
"There is one thing," said John Openshaw.
"What shall I do?"
"There is but one thing to do.
Do you understand?"
"Entirely."
How do you go back?"
"By train from Waterloo."
"I shall see you at Horsham, then?"
"No, your secret lies in London.
"But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?"
"There can be no question as to their nature," he answered.
"Then what are they?
Who is this K. K. K., and why does he pursue this unhappy family?"
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together.
Did you remark the postmarks of those letters?"
"The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third from London."
What do you deduce from that?"
"They are all seaports.
Does that suggest anything?"
"A greater distance to travel."
"What can it mean, this relentless persecution?"
"The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship.
"But of what society?"
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?"
"I never have."
"What steps will you take?"
I asked.
"You will not go there first?"
"No, I shall commence with the City.
How was it done?"
He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved.
"How could they have decoyed him down there?
The Embankment is not on the direct line to the station.
"To the police?"
"No; I shall be my own police.
"Nothing?"
"Not a bite.
"And how have you succeeded?"
"Well."
"You have a clue?"
"I have them in the hollow of my hand.
"What do you mean?"
He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.
"And who is this Captain Calhoun?"
"The leader of the gang.
"How did you trace it, then?"
He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with dates and names.
"What then?"
"I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque 'Lone Star' was there in January, '85, my suspicion became a certainty.
"Yes?"
"The 'Lone Star' had arrived here last week.
"What will you do, then?"
"Oh, I have my hand upon him.
Or should you rather that I sent James off to bed?"
"Oh, no, no!
Did she know where her husband was?
Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?
It seems that it was.
But what was she to do?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
Might I not escort her to this place?
And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?
I was Isa Whitney's medical adviser, and as such I had influence over him.
"I say, Watson, what o'clock is it?"
"Nearly eleven."
"Of what day?"
"Of Friday, June 19th."
What d'you want to frighten a chap for?"
He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.
Have you a cab?"
"Yes, I have one waiting."
I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?"
"As low as you can," he answered; "I have excellent ears.
"An enemy?"
"Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.
You do not mean bodies?"
"Ay, bodies, Watson.
"You'll come with me, won't you?"
"If I can be of use."
"The Cedars?"
"Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair's house.
"Where is it, then?"
"Near Lee, in Kent.
Have you followed me so far?"
"It is very clear."
"What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?"
"He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man.
And what do you think they found in the pockets?"
"I cannot imagine."
Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?"
"No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough.
What would he do then?
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.
See that light among the trees?
That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt, caught the clink of our horse's feet."
"But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?"
I asked.
"Well?"
she cried, "well?"
And then, seeing that there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
"No good news?"
"None."
"No bad?"
"No."
"Upon what point?"
"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"
Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question.
"You think that he is dead?"
"I do."
"Murdered?"
"I don't say that.
"And on what day did he meet his death?"
"On Monday."
"May I see it?"
"Certainly."
"How can you tell that?"
"The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself.
"And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?"
"One of his hands."
"One?"
"His hand when he wrote hurriedly.
And you have no doubt that it is your husband's hand, madam?"
"None.
Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?"
"I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner.
But if your husband is alive and able to write letters, why should he remain away from you?"
"I cannot imagine.
"And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?"
"No."
"And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?"
"Very much so."
"Was the window open?"
"Yes."
"Then he might have called to you?"
"He might."
"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"
"Yes."
"A call for help, you thought?"
"Yes.
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?"
"It is possible."
"And you thought he was pulled back?"
"He disappeared so suddenly."
You did not see anyone else in the room?"
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs."
Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary clothes on?"
"But without his collar or tie.
"Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?"
"Never."
"Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?"
"Never."
"Awake, Watson?"
he asked.
"Game for a morning drive?"
"Certainly."
"And where is it?"
I asked, smiling.
"Who is on duty?"
asked Holmes.
"Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?"
A tall, stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket.
Holmes?"
"I called about that beggarman, Boone--the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee."
You have him here?"
"In the cells."
"Is he quiet?"
"Oh, he gives no trouble.
"Dirty?"
"Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is as black as a tinker's.
"Would you?
That is easily done.
"He's a beauty, isn't he?"
said the inspector.
"He doesn't look a credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?"
He slipped his key into the lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell.
"And pray what am I charged with?"
"With making away with Mr. Neville St.-- Oh, come, you can't be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it," said the inspector with a grin.
What can I do?"
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.
But have you never been prosecuted for begging?"
"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"
"It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet.
You know Peterson, the commissionaire?"
"Yes."
"Which surely he restored to their owner?"
"My dear fellow, there lies the problem.
"What, then, did Peterson do?"
"He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.
"Did he not advertise?"
"No."
"Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?"
"Only as much as we can deduce."
"From his hat?"
"Precisely."
What can you gather from this old battered felt?"
"Here is my lens.
What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?"
I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully.
"Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?"
He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him.
Is it possible that even now, when I give you these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?"
"I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am unable to follow you.
For example, how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?"
For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.
"The decline of his fortunes, then?"
"This hat is three years old.
But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?"
Sherlock Holmes laughed.
But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?"
"One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow--walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other.
Are you satisfied?"
"Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, as you said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy."
"Eh?
What of it, then?
Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?"
Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face.
I suppose you know what you have got?"
"A diamond, sir?
A precious stone.
"What will you say?"
"Give me a pencil and that slip of paper.
But will he see it?"
"Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one.
"In which, sir?"
"Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James's, Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you."
And this stone?"
"Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison?
I'll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it."
"Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?"
"I cannot tell."
"Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?"
"It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold.
"And you can do nothing until then?"
"Nothing."
Baker?"
"Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat."
But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally well?"
"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of relief.
"By the way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from?
I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose."
Are you hungry, Watson?"
"Not particularly."
Whose, then?"
"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden."
"Indeed?
I know some of them.
Which was it?"
"Breckinridge is his name."
"Who by?"
"The landlord of the Alpha."
Now where did you get them from?"
To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.
"Now, then, mister," said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo, "what are you driving at?
Let's have it straight, now."
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business; but it's 'Where are the geese?'
and 'Who did you sell the geese to?'
and 'What will you take for the geese?'
One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over them."
"D'you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them ever since I was a nipper?
I tell you, all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred."
"Will you bet, then?"
"It's merely taking your money, for I know that I am right.
You see this little book?"
"Well?"
"That's the list of the folk from whom I buy.
D'you see?
Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.
You see this other page in red ink?
Well, that is a list of my town suppliers.
"Now, then, what's the last entry?"
"'December 22nd.
And underneath?"
"'Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.'"
"What have you to say now?"
Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.
You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and I'll answer her, but what have you to do with it?
Did I buy the geese off you?"
"No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the little man.
"Who are you, then?
What do you want?"
he asked in a quavering voice.
"You?
Who are you?
How could you know anything of the matter?"
"My name is Sherlock Holmes.
"But you can know nothing of this?"
"Excuse me, I know everything of it.
You want to know what became of those geese?"
"Yes, sir."
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can you tell me where it went to?"
"It came here."
"Here?"
"Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved.
You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar's?"
"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a crackling voice.
What did you do, then?
You made some small job in my lady's room--you and your confederate Cusack--and you managed that he should be the man sent for.
How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose into the open market?
Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope of safety."
But how to get to him in safety?
I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.
"'Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?'
says she.
'Which is it you want, then?'
"'That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.'
"'Where are they all, Maggie?'
I cried.
"'Which dealer's?'
"'Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.'
"'But was there another with a barred tail?'
I asked, 'the same as the one I chose?'
"'Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell them apart.'
"What is it, then--a fire?"
"No; a client.
"What, then?"
"It is fear, Mr. Holmes.
"You know me, then?"
"No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove.
Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me?
At present it is out of my power to reward you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married, with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful."
"Your sister is dead, then?"
"She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you.
Do I make myself plain?"
"Perfectly so."
"'Tell me, Helen,' said she, 'have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?'
"'Never,' said I.
"'I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in your sleep?'
"'Certainly not.
But why?'
"'Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle.
"Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?"
"Always."
"And why?"
"I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon.
"One moment," said Holmes, "are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound?
Could you swear to it?"
"That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry.
"Was your sister dressed?"
"No, she was in her night-dress.
And what conclusions did the coroner come to?"
"He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott's conduct had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death.
"How about poison?"
"The doctors examined her for it, but without success."
"What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?"
"It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine."
"Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?"
"Yes, there are nearly always some there."
"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a speckled band?"
"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium, sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people, perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation.
"But have you told me all?"
"Yes, all."
"Why, what do you mean?"
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee.
If we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?"
"As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business.
You are not averse to this trip, Watson?"
"By no means."
What are you going to do yourself?"
"I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town.
Will you not wait and breakfast?"
"No, I must go.
"And what do you think of it all, Watson?"
asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.
"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?"
"I cannot think."
"But what, then, did the gipsies do?"
"I cannot imagine."
"Which of you is Holmes?"
asked this apparition.
What has she been saying to you?"
"It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes.
"What has she been saying to you?"
screamed the old man furiously.
You put me off, do you?"
said our new visitor, taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop.
"Stoke Moran?"
said he.
What will he say when he returns?"
"He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track.
"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your sister's, and the one next to the main building to Dr. Roylott's chamber?"
"Exactly so.
There are windows in it, of course?"
"Yes, but very small ones.
Now, would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?"
Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but without success.
"Where does that bell communicate with?"
he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.
"It looks newer than the other things?"
"Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago."
"Your sister asked for it, I suppose?"
"No, I never heard of her using it.
"Won't it ring?"
"No, it is not even attached to a wire.
"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?"
remarked Holmes.
"What's in here?"
he asked, tapping the safe.
you have seen inside, then?"
"Only once, some years ago.
"There isn't a cat in it, for example?"
"No.
"What do you make of that, Watson?"
"It's a common enough lash.
"That is not quite so common, is it?
Ah, me!
I believe that that is the village inn over there?"
"Yes, that is the Crown."
Your windows would be visible from there?"
"Certainly."
"But what will you do?"
"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you."
"Can I be of assistance?"
"Your presence might be invaluable."
"You saw the ventilator, too?"
"Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms.
"But what harm can there be in that?"
"Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates.
Does not that strike you?"
"I cannot as yet see any connection."
"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?"
"No."
Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?"
"I cannot say that I have."
I whispered; "did you see it?"
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.
How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil?
I could not hear a sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous tension in which I was myself.
"You see it, Watson?"
he yelled.
"You see it?"
But I saw nothing.
"What can it mean?"
I gasped.
"What is it, then?"
I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up in my room.
"An accident, I presume?"
"By no means."
a murderous attack?"
"Very murderous indeed."
"How is that?"
I asked when I had finished.
Would you give me an introduction to him?"
"I'll do better.
Do you feel equal to it?"
"Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story."
Hatherley?'
said he, with something of a German accent.
'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?'
"'Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment.
I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?'
"'Undoubtedly so.
"'Do you promise, then?'
said he at last.
"'Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after?
No reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?'
"'I have already given you my word.'
"'How would fifty guineas for a night's work suit you?'
he asked.
What do you think of such a commission as that?'
"'The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.'
"'Where to?'
"'To Eyford, in Berkshire.
"'There is a drive, then?'
"'Yes, our little place is quite out in the country.
Could I not come at some more convenient hour?'
"'We have judged it best that you should come late.
I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?'
"'Entirely.'
You are probably aware that fuller's-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one or two places in England?'
"'I have heard so.'
I hope that I make it all plain?'
"'I quite follow you,' said I.
"One horse?"
interjected Holmes.
"Did you observe the colour?"
"Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage.
"Tired-looking or fresh?"
"Oh, fresh and glossy."
Who were these German people, and what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place?
And where was the place?
I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea.
Was it all to go for nothing?
Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the payment which was my due?
This woman might, for all I knew, be a monomaniac.
"'What, you dig fuller's-earth in the house?'
"'No, no.
"'What are you doing there?'
he asked.
Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart.
Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me?
No, he had not.
Was there a police-station anywhere near?
There was one about three miles off.
"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?"
"They must have done so.
Who do you give your casting vote to?"
"You are all wrong."
"But the twelve-mile drive?"
gasped Hatherley.
How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?"
"Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.
"A house on fire?"
asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.
"When did it break out?"
"I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and the whole place is in a blaze."
"Whose house is it?"
"Dr.
"Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr. Becher a German, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?"
The station-master laughed heartily.
I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?"
"Experience," said Holmes, laughing.
"Not social, then?"
"No, distinctly professional."
"And from a noble client?"
"One of the highest in England."
You have been reading the papers diligently of late, have you not?"
"It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the corner.
But if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?"
"Oh, yes, with the deepest interest."
"Anything else?"
asked Holmes, yawning.
"Before the what?"
asked Holmes with a start.
"When did she vanish, then?"
"At the wedding breakfast."
"And is that all?"
"Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is a suggestive one."
And which king?"
"The King of Scandinavia."
Had he lost his wife?"
"You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours."
"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"
"In San Francisco, a year ago."
"You were travelling in the States?"
"Yes."
"Did you become engaged then?"
"No."
"But you were on a friendly footing?"
"I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused."
"Her father is very rich?"
"He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope."
"And how did he make his money?"
"In mining.
"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your wife's character?"
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire.
"Have you her photograph?"
"I brought this with me."
"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your acquaintance?"
"Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season.
"She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"
"A fair dowry.
"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a fait accompli?"
"I really have made no inquiries on the subject."
Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?"
"Yes."
"Was she in good spirits?"
"Never better.
And on the morning of the wedding?"
"She was as bright as possible--at least until after the ceremony."
"And did you observe any change in her then?"
"Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp.
Some of the general public were present, then?"
"Oh, yes.
"This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"
"No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a common-looking person.
What did she do on re-entering her father's house?"
"I saw her in conversation with her maid."
"And who is her maid?"
"Alice is her name.
"A confidential servant?"
"A little too much so.
"How long did she speak to this Alice?"
"Oh, a few minutes.
"You did not overhear what they said?"
"Lady St. Simon said something about 'jumping a claim.'
And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?"
"She walked into the breakfast-room."
"On your arm?"
"No, alone.
"Did your wife hear all this?"
"No, thank goodness, she did not."
"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"
"Yes.
"You think so, too?"
"I did not say a probable one.
But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?"
"I do not think Flora would hurt a fly."
Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?"
"Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one.
"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"
"Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back--I will not say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to without success--I can hardly explain it in any other fashion."
May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?"
"We could see the other side of the road and the Park."
"Eh?
What was that?"
"I say that I have solved it."
"Where, then, is my wife?"
"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."
"What's up, then?"
asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye.
"Who ever heard of such a mixed affair?
Every clue seems to slip through my fingers.
"In heaven's name, what for?"
"In search of the body of Lady St.
"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?"
he asked.
"Why?
What do you mean?"
"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other."
Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?"
"I think it very unlikely."
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?"
He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a bride's wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water.
"You dragged them from the Serpentine?"
"No.
And pray what did you hope to arrive at through this?"
"At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance."
"Are you, indeed, now?"
cried Lestrade with some bitterness.
"And how?"
"In the dress is a pocket.
you find it so?"
"Extremely so.
"The right side?
You're mad!
"My messenger reached you, then?"
asked Holmes.
Have you good authority for what you say?"
"The best possible."
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?"
"It is the purest accident.
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?"
"If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman, "we've had just a little too much secrecy over this business already.
'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,' said he, 'and then I will feel sure of you; and I won't claim to be your husband until I come back?'
Well, we talked it over, and he had fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to pa. "The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico.
Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church?
I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still.
"Then you won't forgive me?
You won't shake hands before I go?"
"Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure."
"You were not yourself at fault at all, then?"
"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.
What could that something be?
She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom.
Had she seen someone, then?
If she had, it must be someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely.
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much influence over her?
It might be a lover; it might be a husband.
"And how in the world did you find them?"
"It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know.
"How did you deduce the select?"
"By the select prices.
"What on earth can be the matter with him?"
I asked.
"Here?"
"Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally.
did I not tell you?"
As he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging.
"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?"
said he.
"No doubt you think me mad?"
said he.
What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass?
We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
"'For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?'
I asked.
'You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?'
"'One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,' said I.
"'You doubt its value?'
he asked.
Is the security sufficient?'
"'Ample.'
Bankers' safes had been forced before now, and why should not mine be?
If so, how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!
"'Where have you put it?'
asked Arthur.
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, 'can you let me have 200 pounds?'
"'No, I cannot!'
"'Tell me, dad,' said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, 'did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?'
"'Certainly not.'
Are you sure that everything is fastened?'
"'Quite sure, dad.'
How dare you touch that coronet?'
"The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding the coronet in his hands.
Where are the jewels which you have stolen?'
"'Stolen!'
Must I call you a liar as well as a thief?
Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?'
"'You have called me names enough,' said he, 'I will not stand it any longer.
"Do you receive much company?"
he asked.
"Do you go out much in society?"
"Arthur does.
"You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?"
"How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands."
Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?"
"Yes, it was twisted."
"Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?"
"God bless you!
What was he doing there at all?
If his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?"
"Precisely.
And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?
His silence appears to me to cut both ways.
What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?"
"They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing his bedroom door."
What did they say, then, of the disappearance of these gems?"
"They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them."
"Have they thought of looking outside the house?"
"Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy.
"Now, my dear sir," said Holmes, "is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think?
It appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex.
I ask you now, is such a theory tenable?"
"But what other is there?"
cried the banker with a gesture of despair.
"If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?"
"It is our task to find that out," replied Holmes; "so now, if you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details."
"You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not, dad?"
she asked.
"Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?"
"Who knows?
Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him."
"How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?"
"Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it.
"This gentleman?"
she asked, facing round to me.
"The stable lane?"
She raised her dark eyebrows.
"What can he hope to find there?
Ah!
Might I ask you a question or two?"
"Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up."
"You heard nothing yourself last night?"
"Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly.
Did you fasten all the windows?"
"Yes."
"Were they all fastened this morning?"
"Yes."
"You have a maid who has a sweetheart?
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?"
"Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may have heard uncle's remarks about the coronet."
"But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the banker impatiently, "when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?"
"Wait a little, Mr. Holder.
You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?"
"Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in.
"Do you know him?"
"Oh, yes!
"He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door--that is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?"
"Yes, he did."
"And he is a man with a wooden leg?"
Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive black eyes.
"How do you know that?"
She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes' thin, eager face.
"Which key was used to open it?"
he asked.
"Have you it here?"
"That is it on the dressing-table."
Now, what do you think would happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder?
There would be a noise like a pistol shot.
Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?"
"I do not know what to think.
What do you think, Miss Holder?"
"I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity."
"Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?"
"He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt."
Where are they?"
"I cannot tell."
"And my son?
You give me hopes?"
"My opinion is in no way altered."
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?"
"If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer.
"Where to?"
"Oh, to the other side of the West End.
"How are you getting on?"
"Oh, so so.
"Deserted you?"
"Yes.
"What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes?
Do you think it points to suicide?"
"No, no, nothing of the kind.
Where are the gems?"
"You would not think 1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for them?"
"I would pay ten."
Have you your check-book?
Here is a pen.
"Then it was not Arthur who took them?"
"I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not."
"My Mary?
Impossible!"
"Is it possible?"
gasped the banker.
The question now was, who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet?
"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?
There could be no possible reason.
"And who could it be who was her confederate?
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?
I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very limited one.
"Do you know the young lady?"
I asked.
"'You are looking for a situation, miss?'
he asked.
"'As governess?'
"'Yes, sir.'
"'And what salary do you ask?'
"'I had 4 pounds a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.'
'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?'
"'My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,' said I.
The point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady?
There it is in a nutshell.
But if you have why, then, how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures?
Your salary with me, madam, would commence at 100 pounds a year.'
"'May I ask where you live, sir?'
said I.
"'And my duties, sir?
I should be glad to know what they would be.'
"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to take charge of a single child?'
"'No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,' he cried.
You see no difficulty, heh?'
"'I should be happy to make myself useful.'
Heh?'
"'No,' said I, considerably astonished at his words.
"'Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?'
"'Oh, no.'
"'Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?'
"I could hardly believe my ears.
And so you won't cut your hair?'
"'No, sir, I really could not,' I answered firmly.
"'Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?'
she asked.
Besides, what use was my hair to me?
Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number.
"But you would not advise me to refuse?"
"I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for."
Holmes?"
"Ah, I have no data.
Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?"
"Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution.
Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?"
"That is a possible solution--in fact, as matters stand, it is the most probable one.
Why should they give you 120 pounds a year, when they could have their pick for 40 pounds?
There must be some strong reason behind."
What danger do you foresee?"
Holmes shook his head gravely.
"Will you come with me?"
asked Holmes, glancing up.
"Are they not fresh and beautiful?"
I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.
"Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?"
"They always fill me with a certain horror.
"What CAN be the matter, then?
Can you suggest no explanation?"
"I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them.
"What can you not understand?"
"Their reasons for their conduct.
"'No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?'
he asked.
'Is he not a beauty?'
"I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness.
How could my hair have been locked in the drawer?
With trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair.
Was it not extraordinary?
Puzzle as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant.
Who would have believed it?
Who would have ever believed it?'
He spoke in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me.
--you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was--'and what has frightened you, my dear young lady?'
"But his voice was just a little too coaxing.
"'Only that?'
said he, looking at me keenly.
"'Why, what did you think?'
I asked.
"'Why do you think that I lock this door?'
"'I am sure that I do not know.'
Do you see?'
He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.
"Is Toller still drunk?"
he asked.
And the Rucastles go out to-night?"
"Yes."
"Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?"
"Yes, the wine-cellar."
Do you think that you could perform one more feat?
I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite exceptional woman."
What is it?"
"We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o'clock, my friend and I.
"What on earth has that to do with it?"
I ejaculated.
"Have you managed it?"
asked Holmes.
"But how?"
"Through the skylight.
said he, "where's your daughter?"
The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.
I have caught you, have I?
You are in my power.
Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of imprisonment?"
"Yes, sir."