"I see it, I deduce it.
"My dear Holmes," said I, "this is too much.
"Well, some hundreds of times."
"How many?
I don't know."
"I have no data yet.
I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was written.
asked Holmes.
His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.
he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.
"You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman.
"Why, indeed?"
murmured Holmes.
"None."
"None."
"There is the writing."
"Absolutely none."
"To ruin me."
"I am about to be married."
"Threatens to send them the photograph.
"I am sure."
"Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.
"Certainly.
"You have carte blanche."
"I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph."
The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.
he asked.
"It was."
"It's quite too funny.
I asked.
Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress?
If the former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.
I asked.
"Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced.
"Some cold beef and a glass of beer," he answered, ringing the bell.
"Not in the least."
"Not in a good cause."
"When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.
"You must leave that to me.
"I am to be neutral?"
"To do nothing whatever.
"Entirely."
"I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street."
"Where, indeed?"
"It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her.
"Her banker or her lawyer.
She could trust her own guardianship, but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.
"I will not look."
"I will get her to show me."
she asked.
"Surely.
"I know where it is."
"She showed me, as I told you she would."
And into her sitting-room, which was the very room which I suspected.
"It was all-important.
I asked.
"At eight in the morning.
"I have hopes."
"Yesterday."
"To an English lawyer named Norton."
"Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance.
said she.
"Never to return."
asked the King hoarsely.
Would she not have made an admirable queen?
Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?"
"From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty," said Holmes coldly.
he asked.
"I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that, especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you use an arc-and-compass breastpin."
"What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?"
"Well, but China?"
"The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China.
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column.
I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.
said he.
"Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; "I have a small pawnbroker's business at Coburg Square, near the City.
asked Sherlock Holmes.
"Why, indeed?
You seem most fortunate in having an employé who comes under the full market price.
"Yes, sir.
I asks.
I asked.
he asked with his eyes open.
I asked.
Have you a family?'
"I answered that I had not.
"'Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business already,' said I.
I asked.
"'Is 4 pounds a week.'
"'Is purely nominal.'
"'Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the building, the whole time.
"'Is to copy out the "Encyclopaedia Britannica."
"'Certainly,' I answered.
"Yes, sir.
"I was staggered, sir.
"'Yes.'
"'Oh, at his new offices.
asked Holmes.
"About a month then."
"In answer to an advertisement."
"No, I had a dozen."
"Because he was handy and would come cheap."
"Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face, though he's not short of thirty.
"Yes, sir.
"Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him."
"Nothing to complain of, sir.
"I make nothing of it," I answered frankly.
I asked.
Could your patients spare you for a few hours?"
"I have nothing to do to-day.
"The knees of his trousers."
"What I expected to see."
"My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk.
"A considerable crime is in contemplation.
"Ten will be early enough."
Where were we going, and what were we to do?
I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker's assistant was a formidable man--a man who might play a deep game.
Let me introduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is to be our companion in to-night's adventure."
The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a very injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones.
"Yes.
"I am afraid so.
"I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door."
Great Scott!
"That is better," said John Clay serenely.
They put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary office, the other rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week.
"Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue.
I thought of the assistant's fondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into the cellar.
I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building.
I asked.
I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.
I asked with interest.
"I did at first," she answered, "but now I know where the letters are without looking."
"Never mind," said Holmes, laughing; "it is my business to know things.
"I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs. Etherege, whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead.
asked Sherlock Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.
"Oh, yes, mother is alive and well.
"Oh, no, sir.
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all father's friends were to be there.
"Well, you know father didn't like anything of the sort.
Did he make no attempt to see you?"
"Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone.
"Oh, yes, Mr. Holmes.
"That's the worst of it, Mr. Holmes, I don't know."
"He slept on the premises."
"No--except that it was Leadenhall Street."
"To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called for.
"He was a very shy man, Mr. Holmes.
"Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back.
"Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived."
"Yes, sir, but very quietly.
"Yes, sir.
"None."
"She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter again."
Did you tell him?"
"Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and that I should hear of Hosmer again.
Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him, there might be some reason, but Hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine.
And why could he not write?
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can't sleep a wink at night."
"I fear not."
"You will leave that question in my hands.
"No.
"He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street."
Describe it."
I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by my friend's incisive reasoning.
I held the little printed slip to the light.
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?"
"I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted."
I asked as I entered.
The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door.
"Yes, sir.
"On the contrary," said Holmes quietly; "I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr. Hosmer Angel."
shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.
He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age.
He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart.
"Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration.
"If I tell her she will not believe me.
Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
said my wife, looking across at me.
"I really don't know what to say.
he asked.
"Well, it is conjectured to be so.
"It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after the return to Hatherley Farm.
"It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters, though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive.
"Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch some allusion to a rat.
"Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me.
"Witness: I should prefer not to answer.
"Witness: It was.
"Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.
"Witness: Nothing definite.
"Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open, that I could think of nothing except of my father.
"'Yes, it was gone.'
"'No, I had a feeling something was there.'
"'A dozen yards or so.'
"'About the same.'
"'Yes, but with my back towards it.'
Too little, if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury; too much, if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so outré as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident of the vanishing cloth.
Twenty-nine, I see.
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw?
Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?"
"I think that it is very probable."
asked Holmes.
asked Holmes.
"No, he was averse to it also.
"I am afraid the doctor won't allow it."
"Yes, have you not heard?
Poor father has never been strong for years back, but this has broken him down completely.
I am not over-tender of heart, but I call it cruel."
"Yes, but only for you and me."
"Ample."
It was something terrible and deadly.
Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper, which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.
It could not be delirium.
I cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation.
"Nothing."
"None at all.
No one knows a word of the matter, but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do, but what he knows to be absolutely impossible.
"Ah!
I would call your attention very particularly to two points.
said Holmes.
It is the more strange, since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea.
"We have got to the deductions and the inferences," said Lestrade, winking at me.
he asked.
It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.
Ha, ha!
Tiptoes!
He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood.
"The grass was growing under it.
"Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket.
"No, finished."
"It is solved."
"The gentleman I describe."
"Surely it would not be difficult to find out.
"Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son.
Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table.
"ARAT," I read.
He raised his hand.
"You know my method.
"The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left.
Because he limped--he was lame."
He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son.
"I could see that the end had not been in his mouth.
"Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up.
He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes, as though his question was already answered.
"I am no official agent.
I was already a dying and a desperate man.
"In view of your health, nothing.
I never hear of such a case as this that I do not think of Baxter's words, and say, 'There, but for the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.'"
Some friend of yours, perhaps?"
"Except yourself I have none," he answered.
"If so, it is a serious case.
"It is true that I have been generally successful."
Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate.
I cried.
I left the breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.
he stammered.
"'Put the papers on the sundial,' I read, peeping over his shoulder.
What sundial?'
he asked.
"'From Dundee,' I answered, glancing at the postmark.
I shall take no notice of such nonsense.'
"'No, I forbid you.
I answer, because I was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle's life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another.
asked Holmes.
"To tell the truth"--he sank his face into his thin, white hands--"I have felt helpless.
"No.
"I did not know.
"There is one thing," said John Openshaw.
"There is but one thing to do.
"Entirely."
"By train from Waterloo."
"No, your secret lies in London.
"There can be no question as to their nature," he answered.
Who is this K. K. K., and why does he pursue this unhappy family?"
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together.
"The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third from London."
"They are all seaports.
"A greater distance to travel."
"The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship.
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?"
"I never have."
I asked.
"No, I shall commence with the City.
He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved.
The Embankment is not on the direct line to the station.
"No; I shall be my own police.
"Not a bite.
"Well."
"I have them in the hollow of my hand.
He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.
"The leader of the gang.
He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with dates and names.
"I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque 'Lone Star' was there in January, '85, my suspicion became a certainty.
"The 'Lone Star' had arrived here last week.
"Oh, I have my hand upon him.
"Oh, no, no!
Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?
It seems that it was.
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?
I was Isa Whitney's medical adviser, and as such I had influence over him.
"Nearly eleven."
"Of Friday, June 19th."
He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.
"Yes, I have one waiting."
"As low as you can," he answered; "I have excellent ears.
"Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural prey.
"Ay, bodies, Watson.
"If I can be of use."
"Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair's house.
"Near Lee, in Kent.
"It is very clear."
"He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man.
"I cannot imagine."
"No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough.
It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.
That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have little doubt, caught the clink of our horse's feet."
I asked.
she cried, "well?"
And then, seeing that there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
"None."
"No."
"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"
Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question.
"I do."
"I don't say that.
"On Monday."
"Certainly."
"The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried itself.
"One of his hands."
"His hand when he wrote hurriedly.
"None.
"I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner.
"I cannot imagine.
"No."
"Very much so."
"Yes."
"He might."
"Yes."
"Yes.
"It is possible."
"He disappeared so suddenly."
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs."
"But without his collar or tie.
"Never."
"Never."
he asked.
"Certainly."
I asked, smiling.
asked Holmes.
A tall, stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket.
"I called about that beggarman, Boone--the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St. Clair, of Lee."
"In the cells."
"Oh, he gives no trouble.
"Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is as black as a tinker's.
That is easily done.
said the inspector.
He slipped his key into the lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell.
"With making away with Mr. Neville St.-- Oh, come, you can't be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it," said the inspector with a grin.
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.
"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"
"It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet.
"Yes."
"My dear fellow, there lies the problem.
"He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning, knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.
"No."
"Only as much as we can deduce."
"Precisely."
"Here is my lens.
I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully.
He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him.
"I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I am unable to follow you.
For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.
"This hat is three years old.
Sherlock Holmes laughed.
"One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow--walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other.
"Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, as you said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a waste of energy."
What of it, then?
Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?"
Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face.
"A diamond, sir?
A precious stone.
"Give me a pencil and that slip of paper.
"Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor man, the loss was a heavy one.
"Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James's, Evening News, Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you."
"Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone.
I'll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it."
"I cannot tell."
"It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold.
"Nothing."
"Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat."
"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of relief.
I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown goose."
"Not particularly."
"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden."
I know some of them.
"Breckinridge is his name."
"The landlord of the Alpha."
To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.
Let's have it straight, now."
and 'Who did you sell the geese to?'
and 'What will you take for the geese?'
One would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the fuss that is made over them."
I tell you, all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred."
"It's merely taking your money, for I know that I am right.
"Well?"
"That's the list of the folk from whom I buy.
Well, then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.
Well, that is a list of my town suppliers.
"'December 22nd.
"'Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.'"
Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.
Did I buy the geese off you?"
"No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the little man.
What do you want?"
he asked in a quavering voice.
Who are you?
How could you know anything of the matter?"
"My name is Sherlock Holmes.
"Excuse me, I know everything of it.
"Yes, sir."
"It came here."
"Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved.
"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a crackling voice.
You made some small job in my lady's room--you and your confederate Cusack--and you managed that he should be the man sent for.
Tell us the truth, for there lies your only hope of safety."
I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.
says she.
"'That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the flock.'
I cried.
"'Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.'
I asked, 'the same as the one I chose?'
"'Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell them apart.'
"No; a client.
"It is fear, Mr. Holmes.
"No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove.
At present it is out of my power to reward you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be married, with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful."
"She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you.
"Perfectly so."
"'Never,' said I.
"'Certainly not.
"'Because during the last few nights I have always, about three in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle.
"Always."
"I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon.
Could you swear to it?"
"That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry.
"No, she was in her night-dress.
"He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott's conduct had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death.
"The doctors examined her for it, but without success."
"It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine."
"Yes, there are nearly always some there."
"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium, sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people, perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation.
"Yes, all."
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee.
"As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business.
"By no means."
"I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town.
"No, I must go.
asked Sherlock Holmes, leaning back in his chair.
"I cannot think."
"I cannot imagine."
asked this apparition.
"It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes.
screamed the old man furiously.
said our new visitor, taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop.
said he.
"He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track.
"Exactly so.
"Yes, but very small ones.
Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open, but without success.
he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.
"Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago."
"No, I never heard of her using it.
"No, it is not even attached to a wire.
remarked Holmes.
he asked, tapping the safe.
"Only once, some years ago.
"No.
"It's a common enough lash.
Ah, me!
"Yes, that is the Crown."
"Certainly."
"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you."
"Your presence might be invaluable."
"Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms.
"Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates.
"I cannot as yet see any connection."
"No."
"I cannot say that I have."
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.
I could not hear a sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state of nervous tension in which I was myself.
he yelled.
But I saw nothing.
I gasped.
I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up in my room.
"By no means."
"Very murderous indeed."
I asked when I had finished.
"I'll do better.
"Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story."
said he, with something of a German accent.
"'Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment.
"'Undoubtedly so.
said he at last.
No reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?'
"'I have already given you my word.'
he asked.
"'The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.'
"'To Eyford, in Berkshire.
"'Yes, our little place is quite out in the country.
"'We have judged it best that you should come late.
"'Entirely.'
"'I have heard so.'
"'I quite follow you,' said I.
interjected Holmes.
"Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage.
"Oh, fresh and glossy."
And where was the place?
I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no idea.
Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the payment which was my due?
This woman might, for all I knew, be a monomaniac.
"'No, no.
he asked.
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart.
No, he had not.
There was one about three miles off.
"They must have done so.
"You are all wrong."
gasped Hatherley.
"Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.
asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.
"I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and the whole place is in a blaze."
"Dr.
The station-master laughed heartily.
"Experience," said Holmes, laughing.
"No, distinctly professional."
"One of the highest in England."
"It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in the corner.
"Oh, yes, with the deepest interest."
asked Holmes, yawning.
asked Holmes with a start.
"At the wedding breakfast."
"Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is a suggestive one."
"The King of Scandinavia."
"You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours."
"In San Francisco, a year ago."
"Yes."
"No."
"I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused."
"He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope."
"In mining.
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire.
"I brought this with me."
"Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season.
"A fair dowry.
"I really have made no inquiries on the subject."
"Yes."
"Never better.
"She was as bright as possible--at least until after the ceremony."
"Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp.
"Oh, yes.
"No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a common-looking person.
"I saw her in conversation with her maid."
"Alice is her name.
"A little too much so.
"Oh, a few minutes.
"Lady St. Simon said something about 'jumping a claim.'
"She walked into the breakfast-room."
"No, alone.
"No, thank goodness, she did not."
"Yes.
"I did not say a probable one.
"I do not think Flora would hurt a fly."
"Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one.
"Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back--I will not say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to without success--I can hardly explain it in any other fashion."
"We could see the other side of the road and the Park."
What was that?"
"I say that I have solved it."
"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."
asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye.
Every clue seems to slip through my fingers.
"In search of the body of Lady St.
he asked.
What do you mean?"
"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other."
"I think it very unlikely."
He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a bride's wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water.
"No.
"At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance."
cried Lestrade with some bitterness.
"In the dress is a pocket.
"Extremely so.
You're mad!
asked Holmes.
"The best possible."
"It is the purest accident.
"If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman, "we've had just a little too much secrecy over this business already.
Well, we talked it over, and he had fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to pa. "The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico.
I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still.
You won't shake hands before I go?"
"Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure."
"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.
She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom.
If she had, it must be someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely.
It might be a lover; it might be a husband.
"It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know.
"By the select prices.
I asked.
"Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally.
As he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging.
said he.
said he.
We waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.
I asked.
"'One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,' said I.
he asked.
"'Ample.'
If so, how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!
asked Arthur.
"'No, I cannot!'
"'Certainly not.'
"'Quite sure, dad.'
"The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding the coronet in his hands.
"'Stolen!'
Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?'
"'You have called me names enough,' said he, 'I will not stand it any longer.
he asked.
"Arthur does.
"How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands."
"Yes, it was twisted."
"God bless you!
If his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?"
"Precisely.
His silence appears to me to cut both ways.
"They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing his bedroom door."
"They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them."
"Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy.
It appeared to you to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex.
"But what other is there?"
cried the banker with a gesture of despair.
"It is our task to find that out," replied Holmes; "so now, if you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details."
she asked.
"Who knows?
Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him."
"Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it.
she asked, facing round to me.
She raised her dark eyebrows.
Ah!
"Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up."
"Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly.
"Yes."
"Yes."
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?"
"Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may have heard uncle's remarks about the coronet."
"Wait a little, Mr. Holder.
"Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in.
"Oh, yes!
"Yes, he did."
Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive black eyes.
She smiled, but there was no answering smile in Holmes' thin, eager face.
he asked.
"That is it on the dressing-table."
There would be a noise like a pistol shot.
"I do not know what to think.
"I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity."
"He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt."
"I cannot tell."
You give me hopes?"
"My opinion is in no way altered."
"If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer.
"Oh, to the other side of the West End.
"Oh, so so.
"Yes.
Do you think it points to suicide?"
"No, no, nothing of the kind.
"You would not think 1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for them?"
"I would pay ten."
Here is a pen.
"I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not."
Impossible!"
gasped the banker.
"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
There could be no possible reason.
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?
I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends was a very limited one.
I asked.
he asked.
"'Yes, sir.'
"'I had 4 pounds a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.'
"'My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,' said I.
There it is in a nutshell.
Your salary with me, madam, would commence at 100 pounds a year.'
said I.
I should be glad to know what they would be.'
"'No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,' he cried.
"'I should be happy to make myself useful.'
"'No,' said I, considerably astonished at his words.
"'Oh, no.'
"I could hardly believe my ears.
"'No, sir, I really could not,' I answered firmly.
she asked.
Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number.
"I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for."
"Ah, I have no data.
"Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution.
"That is a possible solution--in fact, as matters stand, it is the most probable one.
There must be some strong reason behind."
Holmes shook his head gravely.
asked Holmes, glancing up.
I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.
"They always fill me with a certain horror.
Can you suggest no explanation?"
"I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them.
"Their reasons for their conduct.
he asked.
"I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness.
With trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair.
Puzzle as I would, I could make nothing at all of what it meant.
Who would have ever believed it?'
He spoke in a jesting tone, but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me.
"But his voice was just a little too coaxing.
said he, looking at me keenly.
I asked.
"'I am sure that I do not know.'
He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.
he asked.
"Yes."
"Yes, the wine-cellar."
I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite exceptional woman."
"We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o'clock, my friend and I.
I ejaculated.
asked Holmes.
"Through the skylight.
The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.
You are in my power.
"Yes, sir."