"Then, how do you know?"
How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?"
"How often?"
"Then how many are there?"
"How many?
"What do you imagine that it means?"
What do you deduce from it?"
"What do you make of that?"
Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of that?"
"You had my note?"
Whom have I the honour to address?"
Why should I attempt to conceal it?"
"Why, indeed?"
But how--" "Was there a secret marriage?"
"No legal papers or certificates?"
If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is she to prove their authenticity?"
"No sign of it?"
And what does she propose to do with the photograph?"
"But how?"
"And Irene Adler?"
"You are sure that she has not sent it yet?"
"And why?"
Your Majesty will, of course, stay in London for the present?"
"Then, as to money?"
"Absolutely?"
"And for present expenses?"
"And Mademoiselle's address?"
"Was the photograph a cabinet?"
"What is it?"
"And what of Irene Adler?"
What was the relation between them, and what the object of his repeated visits?
Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress?
"'What then?'
"This is a very unexpected turn of affairs," said I; "and what then?"
"Which are?"
"You don't mind breaking the law?"
"Nor running a chance of arrest?"
"But what is it you wish?"
"And what then?"
You understand?"
"I am to be neutral?"
You quite follow me?"
I hope that I have made myself clear?"
Now the question is, Where are we to find the photograph?"
"Where, indeed?"
"Where, then?"
Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
"But how will you look?"
"What then?"
"Is the poor gentleman much hurt?"
May we bring him in, marm?"
"You have the photograph?"
"And how did you find out?"
What else could she do?
"How did that help you?"
"And now?"
"And when will you call?"
"But you have hopes?"
When?"
"But to whom?"
"And why in hopes?"
"Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?"
"Do you mean that she has left England?"
"And the papers?"
"Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was?
Would she not have made an admirable queen?
Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?"
Holmes?"
"Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?"
But the writing?"
"What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?"
"Well, but China?"
Wilson?"
"What on earth does this mean?"
"It is a little off the beaten track, isn't it?"
Wilson?"
"What is the name of this obliging youth?"
But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?"
"Why, indeed?
"He is still with you, I presume?"
"'Why that?'
"'Why, what is it, then?'
"'Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?'
"'And what are they worth?'
Are you a married man, Mr. Wilson?
Have you a family?'
When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?'
"'What would be the hours?'
'And the pay?'
"'And the work?'
"'What do you call purely nominal?'
"'And the work?'
Will you be ready to-morrow?'
"To an end?"
Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door?"
"'What, the red-headed man?'
"'Where could I find him?'
"And what did you do then?"
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement--how long had he been with you?"
"How did he come?"
"Was he the only applicant?"
"Why did you pick him?"
"What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?"
"Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?"
"He is still with you?"
"And has your business been attended to in your absence?"
"Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had left us, "what do you make of it all?"
"What are you going to do, then?"
"What do you think, Watson?
Could your patients spare you for a few hours?"
"What then?"
"And what did you see?"
"Why did you beat the pavement?"
"Why serious?"
"At what time?"
What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Where were we going, and what were we to do?
"Watson, I think you know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard?
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?"
"Your French gold?"
"And sit in the dark?"
I hope that you have done what I asked you, Jones?"
"Have you the chisel and the bags?
"Well, would you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?"
The 4 pounds a week was a lure which must draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?
"But how could you guess what the motive was?"
What could it be?
What could it be, once more?
"And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?"
"And the ring?"
"And have you any on hand just now?"
"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?"
"You've heard about me, Mr. Holmes," she cried, "else how could you know all that?"
If not, why should you come to consult me?"
"Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?"
"And your mother is alive?"
"Your own little income," he asked, "does it come out of the business?"
But this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to prevent?
"No?"
"But how about Mr. Hosmer Angel?
Did he make no attempt to see you?"
"Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?"
Hosmer--Mr. Angel--was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall Street--and--" "What office?"
"Where did he live, then?"
"And you don't know his address?"
"Where did you address your letters, then?"
Can you remember any other little things about Mr. Hosmer Angel?"
"Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank, your stepfather, returned to France?"
"It missed him, then?"
Was it to be in church?"
Your own opinion is, then, that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?"
"But you have no notion as to what it could have been?"
How did your mother take the matter?"
"And your father?
Did you tell him?"
As he said, what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving me?
And yet, what could have happened?
And why could he not write?
"Then you don't think I'll see him again?"
"Then what has happened to him?"
And your address?"
Where is your father's place of business?"
Now, what did you gather from that woman's appearance?
"And what else?"
Would you mind reading me the advertised description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?"
"Of what?"
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?"
"Well, have you solved it?"
"Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?"
"I think that this typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an appointment with me for six o'clock?"
Besides, it is a useless expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?"
where?"
Now her marriage would mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what does her stepfather do to prevent it?
What does her clever stepfather do then?
"And how did you verify them?"
"And Miss Sutherland?"
It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way: "Have you a couple of days to spare?
"What do you say, dear?"
"Will you go?"
"Have you heard anything of the case?"
"It is a murder, then?"
"What are they?"
"What is the young man's own account of the matter?"
"The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before he died?
"The Coroner: What did you understand by that?
"The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel?
"The Coroner: I understand that the cry of 'Cooee' was a common signal between you and your father?
"The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you, and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?
"A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?
"The Coroner: What do you mean?
"'Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?'
"'You cannot say what it was?'
"'How far from the body?'
"'And how far from the edge of the wood?'
"'Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?'
Don't you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little?
"How is the glass?
You have formed some conclusion?
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw?
Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?"
"In what way?"
"And your father?"
"Was he in favour of such a union?"
"May I see your father if I call to-morrow?"
"The doctor?"
"Yes, have you not heard?
"Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint?
"Have you an order to see him in prison?"
We have still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?"
Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by his screams, he rushed into the glade?
What could it be?
Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
What could that mean?
But what could it indicate?
"And what did you learn from him?"
"Could he throw no light?"
This fellow is madly, insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was only a lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office?
"But if he is innocent, who has done it?"
who?
"An elderly man, I presume?"
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son to Turner's daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and that in such a very cocksure manner, as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow?
Do you not deduce something from that?"
"What did you go into the pool for?"
What is this, then?
And this?
What have we here?
Now where did they come from?"
"How do you know, then?"
"And the murderer?"
"And leave your case unfinished?"
"But the mystery?"
"Who was the criminal, then?"
"But who is he?"
then?"
"What of the rat, then?"
"What do you read?"
"And now?"
"But how did you gain them?"
"But his lameness?"
Why?
Now, how can that be unless it were by a left-handed man?
"And the cigar-holder?"
"You had my note?"
"And why did you wish to see me?"
"What?"
Could I not snap the bond?
And what do you intend to do?"
"Why does fate play such tricks with poor, helpless worms?
Who could come to-night?
Some friend of yours, perhaps?"
"A client, then?"
"But what is that compared with the number of your successes?"
What can this be?'
"'What is it, uncle?'
What could be the reason of his overpowering terror?
"'Why, what on earth does this mean, John?'
But what is this written above them?'
"'What papers?
What sundial?'
Where does the thing come from?'
'What have I to do with sundials and papers?
"'Then let me do so?'
You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?
"What have you done?"
"Nothing?"
"Has he come with you to-night?"
"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above all, why did you not come at once?"
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you have placed before us--no suggestive detail which might help us?"
"What shall I do?"
Do you understand?"
How do you go back?"
"I shall see you at Horsham, then?"
"But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?"
"Then what are they?
Who is this K. K. K., and why does he pursue this unhappy family?"
Did you remark the postmarks of those letters?"
What do you deduce from that?"
Does that suggest anything?"
"What can it mean, this relentless persecution?"
"But of what society?"
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?"
"What steps will you take?"
"You will not go there first?"
How was it done?"
"How could they have decoyed him down there?
"To the police?"
"Nothing?"
"And how have you succeeded?"
"You have a clue?"
"What do you mean?"
"And who is this Captain Calhoun?"
"How did you trace it, then?"
"What then?"
"Yes?"
"What will you do, then?"
Or should you rather that I sent James off to bed?"
Did she know where her husband was?
Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?
But what was she to do?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
Might I not escort her to this place?
And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?
"I say, Watson, what o'clock is it?"
"Of what day?"
What d'you want to frighten a chap for?"
Have you a cab?"
I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?"
"An enemy?"
You do not mean bodies?"
"You'll come with me, won't you?"
"The Cedars?"
"Where is it, then?"
Have you followed me so far?"
"What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?"
And what do you think they found in the pockets?"
Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?"
What would he do then?
See that light among the trees?
"But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?"
"Well?"
she cried, "well?"
"No good news?"
"No bad?"
"Upon what point?"
"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"
"You think that he is dead?"
"Murdered?"
"And on what day did he meet his death?"
"May I see it?"
"How can you tell that?"
"And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?"
"One?"
And you have no doubt that it is your husband's hand, madam?"
Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?"
But if your husband is alive and able to write letters, why should he remain away from you?"
"And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?"
"And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?"
"Was the window open?"
"Then he might have called to you?"
"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"
"A call for help, you thought?"
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?"
"And you thought he was pulled back?"
You did not see anyone else in the room?"
Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary clothes on?"
"Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?"
"Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?"
"Awake, Watson?"
"Game for a morning drive?"
"And where is it?"
"Who is on duty?"
"Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?"
Holmes?"
You have him here?"
"Is he quiet?"
"Dirty?"
"Would you?
"He's a beauty, isn't he?"
"He doesn't look a credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?"
"And pray what am I charged with?"
What can I do?"
But have you never been prosecuted for begging?"
"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"
You know Peterson, the commissionaire?"
"Which surely he restored to their owner?"
"What, then, did Peterson do?"
"Did he not advertise?"
"Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?"
"From his hat?"
What can you gather from this old battered felt?"
What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?"
"Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?"
Is it possible that even now, when I give you these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?"
For example, how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?"
"The decline of his fortunes, then?"
But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?"
But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?"
Are you satisfied?"
"Eh?
What of it, then?
Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?"
I suppose you know what you have got?"
"A diamond, sir?
"What will you say?"
But will he see it?"
"In which, sir?"
And this stone?"
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison?
"Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?"
"Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had anything to do with the matter?"
"And you can do nothing until then?"
Baker?"
But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally well?"
"By the way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from?
Are you hungry, Watson?"
Whose, then?"
"Indeed?
Which was it?"
"Who by?"
Now where did you get them from?"
"Now, then, mister," said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo, "what are you driving at?
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business; but it's 'Where are the geese?'
and 'Who did you sell the geese to?'
and 'What will you take for the geese?'
"D'you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them ever since I was a nipper?
"Will you bet, then?"
You see this little book?"
"Well?"
D'you see?
You see this other page in red ink?
"Now, then, what's the last entry?"
And underneath?"
"What have you to say now?"
You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and I'll answer her, but what have you to do with it?
Did I buy the geese off you?"
"Who are you, then?
What do you want?"
"You?
Who are you?
How could you know anything of the matter?"
"But you can know nothing of this?"
You want to know what became of those geese?"
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can you tell me where it went to?"
"Here?"
You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar's?"
What did you do, then?
How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose into the open market?
But how to get to him in safety?
"'Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?'
'Which is it you want, then?'
"'Where are they all, Maggie?'
"'Which dealer's?'
"'But was there another with a barred tail?'
I asked, 'the same as the one I chose?'
"What is it, then--a fire?"
"What, then?"
"You know me, then?"
Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me?
"Your sister is dead, then?"
Do I make myself plain?"
"'Tell me, Helen,' said she, 'have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?'
"'I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in your sleep?'
But why?'
"Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?"
"And why?"
"One moment," said Holmes, "are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound?
Could you swear to it?"
"Was your sister dressed?"
And what conclusions did the coroner come to?"
"How about poison?"
"What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?"
"Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?"
"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a speckled band?"
"But have you told me all?"
"Why, what do you mean?"
If we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?"
You are not averse to this trip, Watson?"
What are you going to do yourself?"
Will you not wait and breakfast?"
"And what do you think of it all, Watson?"
"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?"
"But what, then, did the gipsies do?"
"Which of you is Holmes?"
What has she been saying to you?"
"What has she been saying to you?"
You put me off, do you?"
"Stoke Moran?"
What will he say when he returns?"
"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your sister's, and the one next to the main building to Dr. Roylott's chamber?"
There are windows in it, of course?"
Now, would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?"
"Where does that bell communicate with?"
"It looks newer than the other things?"
"Your sister asked for it, I suppose?"
"Won't it ring?"
"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?"
"What's in here?"
you have seen inside, then?"
"There isn't a cat in it, for example?"
"What do you make of that, Watson?"
"That is not quite so common, is it?
I believe that that is the village inn over there?"
Your windows would be visible from there?"
"But what will you do?"
"Can I be of assistance?"
"You saw the ventilator, too?"
"But what harm can there be in that?"
Does not that strike you?"
"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?"
Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?"
I whispered; "did you see it?"
How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil?
"You see it, Watson?"
"You see it?"
"What can it mean?"
"What is it, then?"
"An accident, I presume?"
a murderous attack?"
"How is that?"
Would you give me an introduction to him?"
Do you feel equal to it?"
Hatherley?'
'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?'
I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?'
"'Do you promise, then?'
"'Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after?
No reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?'
"'How would fifty guineas for a night's work suit you?'
What do you think of such a commission as that?'
"'Where to?'
"'There is a drive, then?'
Could I not come at some more convenient hour?'
I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?'
You are probably aware that fuller's-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one or two places in England?'
I hope that I make it all plain?'
"One horse?"
"Did you observe the colour?"
"Tired-looking or fresh?"
Who were these German people, and what were they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place?
And where was the place?
Was it all to go for nothing?
Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the payment which was my due?
"'What, you dig fuller's-earth in the house?'
"'What are you doing there?'
Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me?
Was there a police-station anywhere near?
"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?"
Who do you give your casting vote to?"
"But the twelve-mile drive?"
How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?"
"A house on fire?"
"When did it break out?"
"Whose house is it?"
"Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr. Becher a German, very thin, with a long, sharp nose?"
I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?"
"Not social, then?"
"And from a noble client?"
You have been reading the papers diligently of late, have you not?"
But if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?"
"Anything else?"
"Before the what?"
"When did she vanish, then?"
"And is that all?"
And which king?"
Had he lost his wife?"
"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"
"You were travelling in the States?"
"Did you become engaged then?"
"But you were on a friendly footing?"
"Her father is very rich?"
"And how did he make his money?"
"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your wife's character?"
"Have you her photograph?"
"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your acquaintance?"
"She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"
"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a fait accompli?"
Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?"
"Was she in good spirits?"
And on the morning of the wedding?"
"And did you observe any change in her then?"
Some of the general public were present, then?"
"This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"
What did she do on re-entering her father's house?"
"And who is her maid?"
"A confidential servant?"
"How long did she speak to this Alice?"
"You did not overhear what they said?"
And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?"
"On your arm?"
"Did your wife hear all this?"
"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"
"You think so, too?"
But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?"
Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?"
"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"
May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?"
"Eh?
What was that?"
"Where, then, is my wife?"
"What's up, then?"
"Who ever heard of such a mixed affair?
"In heaven's name, what for?"
"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?"
"Why?
What do you mean?"
Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?"
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?"
"You dragged them from the Serpentine?"
And pray what did you hope to arrive at through this?"
"Are you, indeed, now?"
"And how?"
you find it so?"
"The right side?
"My messenger reached you, then?"
Have you good authority for what you say?"
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?"
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?"
'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,' said he, 'and then I will feel sure of you; and I won't claim to be your husband until I come back?'
Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church?
"Then you won't forgive me?
You won't shake hands before I go?"
"You were not yourself at fault at all, then?"
What could that something be?
Had she seen someone, then?
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much influence over her?
"And how in the world did you find them?"
"How did you deduce the select?"
"What on earth can be the matter with him?"
"Here?"
did I not tell you?"
"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?"
"No doubt you think me mad?"
What could have happened, then, to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass?
"'For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?'
'You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?'
"'You doubt its value?'
Is the security sufficient?'
Bankers' safes had been forced before now, and why should not mine be?
"'Where have you put it?'
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, 'can you let me have 200 pounds?'
"'Tell me, dad,' said she, looking, I thought, a little disturbed, 'did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out to-night?'
Are you sure that everything is fastened?'
How dare you touch that coronet?'
Where are the jewels which you have stolen?'
Must I call you a liar as well as a thief?
Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?'
"Do you receive much company?"
"Do you go out much in society?"
"You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?"
Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?"
"Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to straighten it?"
What was he doing there at all?
If his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?"
And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?
What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?"
What did they say, then, of the disappearance of these gems?"
"Have they thought of looking outside the house?"
"Now, my dear sir," said Holmes, "is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think?
I ask you now, is such a theory tenable?"
"But what other is there?"
"If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain them?"
"You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you not, dad?"
"Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?"
"Who knows?
"How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?"
"This gentleman?"
"The stable lane?"
"What can he hope to find there?
Might I ask you a question or two?"
"You heard nothing yourself last night?"
Did you fasten all the windows?"
"Were they all fastened this morning?"
"You have a maid who has a sweetheart?
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?"
"But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the banker impatiently, "when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?"
You saw her return by the kitchen door, I presume?"
"Do you know him?"
"He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door--that is to say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?"
"And he is a man with a wooden leg?"
"How do you know that?"
"Which key was used to open it?"
"Have you it here?"
Now, what do you think would happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder?
Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?"
What do you think, Miss Holder?"
"Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?"
Where are they?"
"And my son?
You give me hopes?"
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?"
"Where to?"
"How are you getting on?"
"Deserted you?"
"What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes?
Do you think it points to suicide?"
Where are the gems?"
"You would not think 1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for them?"
Have you your check-book?
"Then it was not Arthur who took them?"
"My Mary?
"Is it possible?"
The question now was, who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet?
But if it were the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?
"And who could it be who was her confederate?
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?
"Do you know the young lady?"
"'You are looking for a situation, miss?'
"'As governess?'
"'And what salary do you ask?'
'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?'
The point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady?
But if you have why, then, how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures?
"'May I ask where you live, sir?'
"'And my duties, sir?
"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to take charge of a single child?'
You see no difficulty, heh?'
Heh?'
"'Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to you?'
"'Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?'
And so you won't cut your hair?'
"'Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?'
Besides, what use was my hair to me?
"But you would not advise me to refuse?"
Holmes?"
Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?"
Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?"
Why should they give you 120 pounds a year, when they could have their pick for 40 pounds?
What danger do you foresee?"
"Will you come with me?"
"Are they not fresh and beautiful?"
"Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?"
"What CAN be the matter, then?
Can you suggest no explanation?"
"What can you not understand?"
"'No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?'
'Is he not a beauty?'
How could my hair have been locked in the drawer?
Was it not extraordinary?
Who would have believed it?
Who would have ever believed it?'
--you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was--'and what has frightened you, my dear young lady?'
"'Only that?'
"'Why, what did you think?'
"'Why do you think that I lock this door?'
Do you see?'
"Is Toller still drunk?"
And the Rucastles go out to-night?"
"Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?"
Do you think that you could perform one more feat?
What is it?"
"What on earth has that to do with it?"
"Have you managed it?"
"But how?"
said he, "where's your daughter?"
I have caught you, have I?
Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this system of imprisonment?"