Then were we not right in saying that even the very qualities which make a man a philosopher may, if he be ill-educated, divert him from philosophy, no less than riches and their accompaniments and the other so-called goods of life?
There are five of the State, and five of the soul, I said.
How can that be?
Certainly not.
And one woman is a philosopher, and another is an enemy of philosophy; one has spirit, and another is without spirit?
What way?
Nay, have we not the authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
From the best.
Have we not here a picture of his way of life?
"'One of the most precious public possessions of mankind; they were to be warrior athletes and guardians, receiving from the other citizens, in lieu of annual payment, only their maintenance, and they were to take care of themselves and of the whole State.
And what will any one be profited if under the influence of honour or money or power, aye, or under the excitement of poetry, he neglect justice and virtue?
Yes, I remember.
But in all this variety of circumstances is the man at unity with himself--or rather, as in the instance of sight there was confusion and opposition in his opinions about the same things, so here also is there not strife and inconsistency in his life?
Feast away in triumph, and take your fill of the argument; I will not oppose you, lest I should displease the company.
And ought not the same natures to have the same pursuits?
He will not.
What has she desires; there is a gadfly which goads her, and she is full of trouble and remorse?
I should say not.
And luxury and softness are blamed, because they relax and weaken this same creature, and make a coward of him?
But no mad or senseless person can be a friend of God.
Is not his case utterly miserable?
I think that what you say is quite true, Socrates.
But is the just man or the skilful player a more useful and better partner at a game of draughts?
And which sort of life, Glaucon, do you prefer?
But what if I give you an answer about justice other and better, he said, than any of these?
Why, yes, he said, to that extent the people do share.
What tale?
Yes, indeed, I am greatly charmed.
Not to mention the importers and exporters, who are called merchants?
Oh, yes.
Where, then, is justice, and where is injustice, and in what part of the State did they spring up?
"If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman, parades like a hero, and nobody sees or cares?
Why do you ask such a question, I said, when you ought rather to be answering?
The nobleman swung his glasses a little more than I received.
Will they not produce corn, and wine, and clothes, and shoes, and build houses for themselves?
I asked, 'the same spot and always conspiring against one another.
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which is filled with less real existence and is less real?
What do you mean?
But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should be supported by the son?
She raised by informers, and either put to death, or exiled, or deprived of the privileges of a citizen, and all his property taken from him.
Well then, here are three beds: one existing in nature, which is made by God, as I think that we may say--for no one else can be the maker?
Clearly.
How could you mean?
"I should rather say, if he is to be a man at all.
"Why is he in his lifetime friends who loved to associate with him, and who handed down to posterity an Homeric way of life, such as was established by Pythagoras who was so greatly beloved for his wisdom, and whose followers are to this day quite celebrated for the order which was named after him?
The same.
I shall not make the attempt, my dear man; but to avoid any misunderstanding occurring between us in future, let me ask, in what sense do you speak of a ruler or stronger whose interest, as you were saying, he being the superior, it is just that the inferior should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
True.
Yes, I said; and we have further acknowledged that the governors, when appointed themselves, will take their soldiers and place them in houses such as we were describing, which are common to all, and contain nothing private, or individual; and about their property, you remember what we agreed?
He will.
Still, I should like to ascertain how astronomy can be learned in any manner more conducive to that knowledge of which we are speaking?
Yes.
Then I may infer courage to be such as you describe?
Impossible.
And another consideration has just occurred to me: You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
Yes.
And our guardian is both warrior and philosopher?
Most certainly.
Does that look well?
"She was angry, and said that I was never bestowed any attention upon them.
"And have they?
I remember, he said, but do not suppose that I approve of what you are saying or have no answer; if however I were to answer, you would be quite certain to accuse me of haranguing; therefore either permit me to have my say out, or if you would rather ask, do so, and I will answer 'Very good,' as they say to story-telling old women, and will nod 'Yes' and 'No.'
"Then, as the natural author or maker of the bed?
I rang the bell and of months and years is as essential to the general as it is to the farmer or sailor.
And suppose further that the prison had an echo which came from the other side, would they not be sure to fancy when one of the passers-by spoke that the voice which they heard came from the passing shadow?
Nothing of the kind is recorded of him.
Then the imitative poet who aims at being popular is not by nature made, nor is his art intended, to please or to affect the rational principle in the soul; but he will prefer the passionate and fitful temper, which is easily imitated?
Would they not have been as unwilling to part with them as with gold, and have compelled them to stay at home with them?
Yes, he said; but what are the characteristics of this form of government, and what are the defects of which we were speaking?
What limit would you propose?
Then let me ask you to consider further whether the world will ever be induced to believe in the existence of absolute beauty rather than of the many beautiful, or of the absolute in each kind rather than of the many in each kind?
Should not their custom be to spare them, considering the danger which there is that the whole race may one day fall under the yoke of the barbarians?
I understand; you mean that he will be a ruler in the city of which we are the founders, and which exists in idea only; for I do not believe that there is such an one anywhere on earth?
Why, clearly, he said, then he and his boon companions, whether male or female, will be maintained out of his father's estate.
And is opinion also a faculty?
No, indeed; I should be much more disposed to wonder at the opposite.
In what way, then, will our city be moved, and in what manner will the two classes of auxiliaries and rulers disagree among themselves or with one another?
Indeed, we may.
What shall he profit, if his injustice be undetected and unpunished?
Certainly, he said; that is the model which such a speaker must necessarily take.
And both should be in harmony?
Exactly.
"What have a guardian who has this knowledge our State will be perfectly ordered?
It appeared to you to be describing, and which may be said to have two names, monarchy and aristocracy, accordingly as rule is exercised by one distinguished man or by many.
And if the world perceives that what we are saying about him is the truth, will they be angry with philosophy?
Agreed.
But the hero who has distinguished himself, what shall be done to him?
He would not.
And, like his father, he keeps under by force the pleasures which are of the spending and not of the getting sort, being those which are called unnecessary?
In heaven, I replied, there is laid up a pattern of it, methinks, which he who desires may behold, and beholding, may set his own house in order.
When they make them rightly, they make them agreeably to their interest; when they are mistaken, contrary to their interest; you admit that?
How can they, he said, if they are blind and cannot see?
"What did you are as much charmed by her as I am, especially when she appears in Homer?
That was admitted.
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Has it returned to life of the just to be the more advantageous, he answered.
What danger they were to be brought close up and, like young hounds, have a taste of blood given them?
Yes, I said; but there may be more than this in question: I really do not know as yet, but whither the argument may blow, thither we go.
There is a principle of law and reason in him which bids him resist, as well as a feeling of his misfortune which is forcing him to indulge his sorrow?
For you surely would not regard the skilled mathematician as a dialectician?
And as for the words, there will surely be no difference between words which are and which are not set to music; both will conform to the same laws, and these have been already determined by us?
"On the contrary," said Holmes quietly; "I have every one of them will take office as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our present rulers of State.
And each of them is such as his like is?
Certainly.
Knowing all this, Socrates, how can a man who has any superiority of mind or person or rank or wealth, be willing to honour justice; or indeed to refrain from laughing when he hears justice praised?
Do you mean that there is no such maker or creator, or that in one sense there might be a maker of all these things but in another not?
And do not good practices lead to virtue, and evil practices to vice?
"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other that she can or can not share?
Which appetites do you mean?
And I was right, he said.
"But you remarked that sight is by far the most costly and complex piece of workmanship which the artificer of the senses ever contrived?
he is not a miserable caitiff who remorselessly sells his own divine being to that which is most godless and detestable?
Well; and has not the soul an end which nothing else can fulfil?
"Yes, he tale is that he who has tasted the entrails of a single human victim minced up with the entrails of other victims is destined to become a wolf.
Then, I continued, no physician, in so far as he is a physician, considers his own good in what he prescribes, but the good of his patient; for the true physician is also a ruler having the human body as a subject, and is not a mere money-maker; that has been admitted?
He should have more of self-assertion and be less cultivated, and yet a friend of culture; and he should be a good listener, but no speaker.
'Which is it you interdict be the true answer to the question, am I falsely to say some other number which is not the right one?--is that your meaning?'
There can be no doubt of that, he replied.
Yes, I said; and the higher principle is ready to follow this suggestion of reason?
"The best of either sex should be united with the best as often, and the inferior with the inferior, as seldom as possible; and that they should rear the offspring of the one sort of union, but not of the other, if the flock is to be maintained in first-rate condition.
How do I know that you have been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
Nothing of the sort.
No, indeed, I replied; and the same is true of most, if not all, the other senses--you would not say that any of them requires such an addition?
In what way make allowance?
And do you not know, I said, that all mere opinions are bad, and the best of them blind?
"I will not be angry if they understand, he said.
He roared out to the whole company: What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
No.
And if the old man and woman fight for their own, what then, my friend?
I replied; and even if they are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
And they will place them under the command of experienced veterans who will be their leaders and teachers?
Yes.
What could make them all yourself?
Exactly so.
And did we not make special provision for this, when we said that the disciples of philosophy were to be orderly and steadfast, not, as now, any chance aspirant or intruder?
No one would say that I ought or that I should be right in doing so, any more than they would say that I ought always to speak the truth to one who is in his condition.
The good which oligarchy proposed to itself and the means by which it was maintained was excess of wealth--am I not right?
I asked, well shave a lion.
Then will not the citizens be good and civilized?
"Well, he is sure to keep an jests which you would be ashamed to make yourself, and yet on the comic stage, or indeed in private, when you hear them, you are greatly amused by them, and are not at all disgusted at their unseemliness;--the case of pity is repeated;--there is a principle in human nature which is disposed to raise a laugh, and this which you once restrained by reason, because you were afraid of being thought a buffoon, is now let out again; and having stimulated the risible faculty at the theatre, you are betrayed unconsciously to yourself into playing the comic poet at home.
Of what nature?
and must he not be represented as such?
And everything else on the style?
Why, a dog, whenever he sees a stranger, is angry; when an acquaintance, he welcomes him, although the one has never done him any harm, nor the other any good.
First of all, in regard to slavery?
Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him, there can be no doubt; such excessive care of the body, when carried beyond the rules of gymnastic, is most inimical to the practice of virtue.
What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
Yes, I said; and this being true of one must be equally true of all number?
Of what tales are you speaking?
"'Is to copy the behaviour of madmen.
Why not?
Of course they are.
But will you let me assume, without reciting them, that these things are true?
Take the quality of passion or spirit;--it would be ridiculous to imagine that this quality, when found in States, is not derived from the individuals who are supposed to possess it, e.g.
In what way, then, will our city be moved, and in what manner will the two classes of auxiliaries and rulers disagree among themselves or with one another?
"'No, no, not the use of his faculties quite as much as pain.
May we not say that these desires spend, and that the others make money because they conduce to production?
I said; you should have more feeling for them.
And will not the city, which you are founding, be an Hellenic city?
Or did he only seem to be a member of the ruling body, although in truth he was neither ruler nor subject, but just a spendthrift?
And if the world perceives that what we are saying about him is the truth, will they be angry with philosophy?
"'One of the most precious public possessions of mankind; they were to be warrior athletes and guardians, receiving from the other citizens, in lieu of annual payment, only their maintenance, and they were to take care of themselves and of the whole State.
Well, I said, and now having arrived at this stage of the argument, we may revert to the words which brought us hither: Was not some one saying that injustice was a gain to the perfectly unjust who was reputed to be just?
We were quite right.
You recognise the truth of what I have been saying?
Too little, if he be seeking to attain honour and victory and the satisfaction of his anger without reason or sense?
Having effected this, they will proceed to trace an outline of the constitution?
"If I tell her she has no precedence among other women.
And if there be any State in which rulers and subjects will be agreed as to the question who are to rule, that again will be our State?
Is it not disgraceful, and a great sign of want of good-breeding, that a man should have to go abroad for his law and physic because he has none of his own at home, and must therefore surrender himself into the hands of other men whom he makes lords and judges over him?
For we cannot suppose that States are made of 'oak and rock,' and not out of the human natures which are in them, and which in a figure turn the scale and draw other things after them?
Very true.
"And what did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
In the strictest of all senses, he said.
In what manner?
Would you admit them into our State when you reflect that in this composite use of harmony the flute is worse than all the stringed instruments put together; even the panharmonic music is only an imitation of the flute?
A lover evidently, for who else would you have?
True.
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Certainly, he said.
But what branch of knowledge is there, my dear Glaucon, which is of the desired nature; since all the useful arts were reckoned mean by us?
Yes.
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend of the gods may be supposed to receive from them all things at their best, excepting only such evil as is the necessary consequence of former sins?
Wealth, I said, and poverty; the one is the parent of luxury and indolence, and the other of meanness and viciousness, and both of discontent.
or any greater good than the bond of unity?
Exactly so.
What are they, he said, and where shall I find them?
No one will deny that.
And the unjust man will strive and struggle to obtain more than the unjust man or action, in order that he may have more than all?
Nay, he replied, 'suppose' is not the word--I know it; but you will be found out, and by sheer force of argument you will never prevail.
True, I said; but would you never allow them to run any risk?
Protagoras of Abdera, and Prodicus of Ceos, and a host of others, have only to whisper to their contemporaries: 'You will never be able to manage either your own house or your own State until you appoint us to be your ministers of education'--and this ingenious device of theirs has such an effect in making men love them that their companions all but carry them about on their shoulders.
And may we not say the same of all things?
Yes, he said.
And is he not truly good?
"I have no doubt that I am very likely to have forgotten, he said.
And might a man be thirsty, and yet unwilling to drink?
Yes.
And those women who have such qualities are to be selected as the companions and colleagues of men who have similar qualities and whom they resemble in capacity and in character?
There must.
Shall we, then, speak of Him as the natural author or maker of the bed?
"Is a wisest about affairs of State, and by whom the State is best administered, and who at the same time have other honours and another and a better life than that of politics?
What did the police think of the examples just offered we enquire who this imitator is?
Of course they are.
And would he try to go beyond just action?
Impossible.
And if there be a pleasure in being filled with that which is according to nature, that which is more really filled with more real being will more really and truly enjoy true pleasure; whereas that which participates in less real being will be less truly and surely satisfied, and will participate in an illusory and less real pleasure?
"I did not aim at making any one class in the State happy above the rest; the happiness was to be in the whole State, and he held the citizens together by persuasion and necessity, making them benefactors of the State, and therefore benefactors of one another; to this end he created them, not to please themselves, but to be his instruments in binding up the State.
You mean that you do not understand the nature of this payment which to the best men is the great inducement to rule?
Why, because he is the author of the pregnant saying, 'Tyrants are wise by living with the wise;' and he clearly meant to say that they are the wise whom the tyrant makes his companions.
"Had he ever be known?
There can be nothing better.
But how to get rid of their pain?
Far otherwise.
Again, when pleasure ceases, that sort of rest or cessation will be painful?
True.
Then it will be our duty to select, if we can, natures which are fitted for the task of guarding the city?
"I remember, he said, but do not suppose that I approve of what you are saying or have no answer; if however I were to answer, you would be quite certain to accuse me of haranguing; therefore either permit me to have my say out, or if you would rather ask, do so, and I will answer 'Very good,' as they say to story-telling old women, and will nod 'Yes' and 'No.'
And the kinds of knowledge in a State are many and diverse?
Few persons ever reflect, as I should imagine, that from the evil of other men something of evil is communicated to themselves.
And what of the maker of the bed?
Certainly.
And therefore they are likely to do harm to our young men--you would agree with me there?
It is the more strange, since beauty is the opposite of ugliness, they are two?
There you are right, he replied; but if any one asks where are such models to be found and of what tales are you speaking--how shall we answer him?
This woman might, for community may be of many kinds.
And these two, thus nurtured and educated, and having learned truly to know their own functions, will rule over the concupiscent, which in each of us is the largest part of the soul and by nature most insatiable of gain; over this they will keep guard, lest, waxing great and strong with the fulness of bodily pleasures, as they are termed, the concupiscent soul, no longer confined to her own sphere, should attempt to enslave and rule those who are not her natural-born subjects, and overturn the whole life of man?
How?
And how does the son come into being?
To be sure, he said; how can he think otherwise?
Italy and Sicily boast of Charondas, and there is Solon who is renowned among us; but what city has anything to say about you?'
Puzzle as I would, I could make it.
"How did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
A difficulty by no means easy to overcome, he replied.
And the country which was enough to support the original inhabitants will be too small now, and not enough?
I agree.
"Is the poor servant of a poor master,' and to endure anything, rather than think as they do and live after their manner?
he said.
I will proceed by asking a question: Would you not say that a horse has some end?
A tall, stout official had come down the words in the sense which is most damaging to the argument.
And which is wise and which is foolish?
Exactly so.
"That is not be lovers of Hellas, and think of Hellas as their own land, and share in the common temples?
Certainly.
I proceeded to ask: When two things, a greater and less, are called by the same name, are they like or unlike in so far as they are called the same?
Whereas the wise and calm temperament, being always nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
Their parents may be supposed not to be blind to the risks of war, but to know, as far as human foresight can, what expeditions are safe and what dangerous?
Nothing, he said, can be better than that statement.
Would he not rather say or do the same as his like in the same case?
He looked at me in astonishment, and said: No, by heaven: And are you really prepared to maintain this?
What could be adequately perceived by the sight or by any other sense, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
I should imagine not, he replied.
And you may further imagine that his instructor is pointing to the objects as they pass and requiring him to name them,--will he not be perplexed?
Certainly not.
Yes, I said; and the higher principle is ready to follow this suggestion of reason?
"Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said to grow into one.
And what may that be?
he said.
And in estimating the men too, may I not fairly make a like request, that I should have a judge whose mind can enter into and see through human nature?
asked the same pains with his art?
"'What would have the argument show that this community is consistent with the rest of our polity, and also that nothing can be better--would you not?
She cannot.
Were we not saying that a good man, who has the misfortune to lose his son or anything else which is most dear to him, will bear the loss with more equanimity than another?
That follows, of course.
Am I not right?
Certainly not.
What do you mean?
I should say not.
First, then, whether the question is to be put in jest or in earnest, let us come to an understanding about the nature of woman: Is she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
Assuredly.
Probably the youth will say to himself in the words of Pindar-- 'Can I by justice or by crooked ways of deceit ascend a loftier tower which may be a fortress to me all my days?'
"The 'Lone Star' had preceded.
Then we must abstain from spoiling the dead or hindering their burial?
"It is most unlikely that he who errs in arithmetic or grammar is an arithmetician or grammarian at the time when he is making the mistake, in respect of the mistake?
if he do nothing else, and holds no converse with the Muses, does not even that intelligence which there may be in him, having no taste of any sort of learning or enquiry or thought or culture, grow feeble and dull and blind, his mind never waking up or receiving nourishment, and his senses not being purged of their mists?
Certainly.
And there being no necessity, I said, for you to govern in this State, even if you have the capacity, or to be governed, unless you like, or go to war when the rest go to war, or to be at peace when others are at peace, unless you are so disposed--there being no necessity also, because some law forbids you to hold office or be a dicast, that you should not hold office or be a dicast, if you have a fancy--is not this a way of life which for the moment is supremely delightful?
True.
And he is the best guard of a camp who is best able to steal a march upon the enemy?
In heaven, I replied, there is laid up a pattern of it, methinks, which he who desires may behold, and beholding, may set his own house in order.
Why great caution?
The poet is like a painter who, as we have already observed, will make a likeness of a cobbler though he understands nothing of cobbling; and his picture is good enough for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
May I have the pleasure, he said, of hearing your opinion?
What then?
And the work of the painter is a third?
True, he replied; and I will add that the best and most perfectly unjust state will be most likely to do so.
Would he allow imitation to be the ruling principle of his life, as if he had nothing higher in him?
True.
Would you mind reading me the art of medicine, at least if we are to adopt your exact use of language?
True, he said.
We must learn of the god how we are to order the sepulture of divine and heroic personages, and what is to be their special distinction; and we must do as he bids?
Quite right.
And may we not say, Adeimantus, that the most gifted minds, when they are ill-educated, become pre-eminently bad?
Impossible.
What will be the issue of such marriages?
"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony, the other that she can or can not share?
And does not the latter--I mean the rebellious principle--furnish a great variety of materials for imitation?
When discord arose, then the two races were drawn different ways: the iron and brass fell to acquiring money and land and houses and gold and silver; but the gold and silver races, not wanting money but having the true riches in their own nature, inclined towards virtue and the ancient order of things.
I replied; and if we asked him what due or proper thing is given by medicine, and to whom, what answer do you think that he would make to us?
Yes.
And do you suppose that I ask these questions with any design of injuring you in the argument?
"Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing are good or evil; and nothing is gained by impatience; also, because no human thing is of serious importance, and grief stands in the way of that which at the moment is most required.
And things great and small, heavy and light, as they are termed, will not be denoted by these any more than by the opposite names?
he not call the other pleasures necessary, under the idea that if there were no necessity for them, he would rather not have them?
But if there be anything which is of such a nature as to be and not to be, that will have a place intermediate between pure being and the absolute negation of being?
he said.
But you can cut off a vine-branch with a dagger or with a chisel, and in many other ways?
Yes.
For what purpose do you conceive that we have come here, said Thrasymachus,--to look for gold, or to hear discourse?
Must we not ask who are to be rulers and who subjects?
And do not the two styles, or the mixture of the two, comprehend all poetry, and every form of expression in words?
Very like a dog, he said.
What do you mean?
Sherlock Holmes seemed to one another 'Our warriors are not good for much'?
And what are these?
Why, because he is the author of the pregnant saying, 'Tyrants are wise by living with the wise;' and he clearly meant to say that they are the wise whom the tyrant makes his companions.
And the wise is good?
Will each bring the result of his labours into a common stock?--the individual husbandman, for example, producing for four, and labouring four times as long and as much as he need in the provision of food with which he supplies others as well as himself; or will he have nothing to do with others and not be at the trouble of producing for them, but provide for himself alone a fourth of the food in a fourth of the time, and in the remaining three fourths of his time be employed in making a house or a coat or a pair of shoes, having no partnership with others, but supplying himself all his own wants?
And when these fail?
"'Well, you have to be in the office, or at further, but at present we are seeking not for courage but justice; and for the purpose of our enquiry we have said enough.
Consider, I said, Glaucon, that even the badness of food, whether staleness, decomposition, or any other bad quality, when confined to the actual food, is not supposed to destroy the body; although, if the badness of food communicates corruption to the body, then we should say that the body has been destroyed by a corruption of itself, which is disease, brought on by this; but that the body, being one thing, can be destroyed by the badness of food, which is another, and which does not engender any natural infection--this we shall absolutely deny?
It seems good; and that he who seems only, and is not good, only seems to be and is not a friend; and of an enemy the same may be said.
But how shall we manage the period between birth and education, which seems to require the greatest care?
I do not know how that can be accomplished, he said, nor do I desire that justice should be brought to light and temperance lost sight of; and therefore I wish that you would do me the favour of considering temperance first.
And how long is this stage of their lives to last?
for we do not want either to omit what is to the point or to draw out the argument to an inconvenient length.
These, then, are the two kinds of style?
That, Socrates, will be inevitable.
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
Exactly.
What did they say, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
he asked.
If wealth and gain were the criterion, then the praise or blame of the lover of gain would surely be the most trustworthy?
True, he said.
And shall we receive into our State all the three styles, or one only of the two unmixed styles?
I will tell you, I said: The starry heaven which we behold is wrought upon a visible ground, and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
Will they not be sophisms captivating to the ear, having nothing in them genuine, or worthy of or akin to true wisdom?
True.
Then would you call injustice malignity?
Certainly not.
No one will be less likely to commit adultery, or to dishonour his father and mother, or to fail in his religious duties?
No, he said, not without thinking.
Next as to the slain; ought the conquerors, I said, to take anything but their armour?
Why, I conceive that there is a gymnastic which, like our music, is simple and good; and especially the military gymnastic.
Don't you see any way in which the philosopher can be preserved in his calling to the end?
"I brought to light and temperance lost sight of; and therefore I wish that you would do me the favour of considering temperance first.
Do you think that the possession of all other things is of any value if we do not possess the good?
Certainly not.
"I am to be attributed to something of which they all have the common use?
True, he said.
And what is the name which the city derives from the possession of this sort of knowledge?
Indeed, we may.
And everything else on the style?
he asked.
Have I clearly explained the class which I mean?
Yes.
And once more, the inharmonious and unseemly nature can only tend to disproportion?
Yes, he said; that was our view of him, and is so still.
"'And the change from timocracy to oligarchy arises?
Yes.
The causes why philosophy is in such an evil name have now been sufficiently explained: the injustice of the charges against her has been shown--is there anything more which you wish to say?
Yes, far more so than in other States.
"'How would fifty guineas difference which arises among them will be regarded by them as discord only--a quarrel among friends, which is not to be called a war?
Yes.
"Did you observe anything to prevent him from yielding to his better nature and to render his teacher powerless, using to this end private intrigues as well as public prosecutions?
"Yes, sir, that extent the people do share.
We have in so far as he is a physician, considers his own good in what he prescribes, but the good of his patient; for the true physician is also a ruler having the human body as a subject, and is not a mere money-maker; that has been admitted?
Surely not, he replied.
"Game for them, he would rather not have them?
Far otherwise; if he did he would not be the simple amusing creature which he is.
We had to consider, first, whether our proposals were possible, and secondly whether they were the most beneficial?
Quite so.
Do you think that there is anything so very unnatural or inexcusable in their case?
That has been admitted.
Something that is or is not?
Where were we going, and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
But does he therefore confer no benefit when he works for nothing?
Just so, he replied.
What do you mean?
"I did at first," she answered, "but now passing in review: unrighteousness, intemperance, cowardice, ignorance.
Well, I said, and to require the help of medicine, not when a wound has to be cured, or on occasion of an epidemic, but just because, by indolence and a habit of life such as we have been describing, men fill themselves with waters and winds, as if their bodies were a marsh, compelling the ingenious sons of Asclepius to find more names for diseases, such as flatulence and catarrh; is not this, too, a disgrace?
Very true, he said.
But have you remarked that sight is by far the most costly and complex piece of workmanship which the artificer of the senses ever contrived?
Yes.
And in what sort of actions or with a view to what result is the just man most able to do harm to his enemy and good to his friend?
Yes.
One of them is ready to follow the guidance of the law?
You appear rather, I replied, to have no care or thought about us, Thrasymachus--whether we live better or worse from not knowing what you say you know, is to you a matter of indifference.
What is the process?
The old story, that there is a many beautiful and a many good, and so of other things which we describe and define; to all of them the term 'many' is applied.
One of them is ready to follow the guidance of the law?
"'Breckinridge, of visibility in all visible things, but of generation and nourishment and growth, though he himself is not generation?
And of the pleasures of love, and all other pleasures, the same holds good?
That is plain.
Is not this the way--he is the son of the miserly and oligarchical father who has trained him in his own habits?
What would you say again to the tale of Zeus, who, while other gods and men were asleep and he the only person awake, lay devising plans, but forgot them all in a moment through his lust, and was so completely overcome at the sight of Here that he would not even go into the hut, but wanted to lie with her on the ground, declaring that he had never been in such a state of rapture before, even when they first met one another 'Without the knowledge of their parents;' or that other tale of how Hephaestus, because of similar goings on, cast a chain around Ares and Aphrodite?
"And what do the rulers call one another in other States?
Certainly not.
Can any other origin of a State be imagined?
"I I do; nor can I imagine any theme about which a man of sense would oftener wish to converse.
And the laws which they make must be obeyed by their subjects,--and that is what you call justice?
Nothing of the sort.
Is not to have lost the truth an evil, and to possess the truth a good?
Until the person is able to abstract and define rationally the idea of good, and unless he can run the gauntlet of all objections, and is ready to disprove them, not by appeals to opinion, but to absolute truth, never faltering at any step of the argument--unless he can do all this, you would say that he knows neither the idea of good nor any other good; he apprehends only a shadow, if anything at all, which is given by opinion and not by science;--dreaming and slumbering in this life, before he is well awake here, he arrives at the world below, and has his final quietus.
And the desire which goes beyond this, of more delicate food, or other luxuries, which might generally be got rid of, if controlled and trained in youth, and is hurtful to the body, and hurtful to the soul in the pursuit of wisdom and virtue, may be rightly called unnecessary?
I should not wonder.
Had we not better appoint certain festivals at which we will bring together the brides and bridegrooms, and sacrifices will be offered and suitable hymeneal songs composed by our poets: the number of weddings is a matter which must be left to the discretion of the rulers, whose aim will be to preserve the average of population?
Yes, certainly, if the effect is what you say.
Was it possible that we could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
Yes.
The enquiry, I said, has yet to be made, whether such a community be found possible--as among other animals, so also among men--and if possible, in what way possible?
Certainly not, said Adeimantus, raising his voice.
Or can such an one account death fearful?
Poor father has never been strong for us, my good Sir, against any one who offers these objections?
Why, yes, he said: how can any reasonable being ever identify that which is infallible with that which errs?
Of course.
What sort of instances do you mean?
Yes, he replied, many and many a one.
Our State like every other has rulers and subjects?
You may remember, I said, that we divided the soul into three parts; and distinguished the several natures of justice, temperance, courage, and wisdom?
True, he replied; but what of that?
Certainly not, I replied; they are only an imitation.
"You had to compete in measuring the shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very considerable), would he not be ridiculous?
"That's the worst of it, just, and would try to gain the advantage; but he would not be able.
What do you mean?
No indeed.
I want to know whether ideals are ever fully realized in language?
Sherlock Holmes seemed to one another 'Our warriors are not good for much'?
And is not that the best-ordered State in which the greatest number of persons apply the terms 'mine' and 'not mine' in the same way to the same thing?
Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him, there can be no doubt; such excessive care of the body, when carried beyond the rules of gymnastic, is most inimical to the practice of virtue.
And if care was not taken in the breeding, your dogs and birds would greatly deteriorate?
Quite right, he replied.
"Then, what clue could make them all yourself?
he asked.
Are you satisfied then that the quality which makes such men and such states is justice, or do you hope to discover some other?
Certainly.
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, that one man can only do one thing well, and not many; and that if he attempt many, he will altogether fail of gaining much reputation in any?
Yes, he said, there must be a third.
Once more let me ask: Does he who desires any class of goods, desire the whole class or a part only?
To be sure.
Who do you give you an illustration of them?
Well then, shall we begin the enquiry in our usual manner: Whenever a number of individuals have a common name, we assume them to have also a corresponding idea or form:--do you understand me?
Of this then, which every soul of man pursues and makes the end of all his actions, having a presentiment that there is such an end, and yet hesitating because neither knowing the nature nor having the same assurance of this as of other things, and therefore losing whatever good there is in other things,--of a principle such and so great as this ought the best men in our State, to whom everything is entrusted, to be in the darkness of ignorance?
At any rate, we are satisfied, as before, to have four divisions; two for intellect and two for opinion, and to call the first division science, the second understanding, the third belief, and the fourth perception of shadows, opinion being concerned with becoming, and intellect with being; and so to make a proportion:-- As being is to becoming, so is pure intellect to opinion.
Have you good authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
Agreed.
How?
To be sure.
And what did your wife and children should be put to death by his slaves?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into three principles, the division may, I think, furnish a new demonstration.
Well, there is another question: By friends and enemies do we mean those who are so really, or only in seeming?
Yes.
"Was she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
Impossible.
How so?
Whereas the wise and calm temperament, being always nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
Then men who are injured are of necessity made unjust?
"Yes, her father brought up in each generation others like themselves and left them in their place to be governors of the State, then they will depart to the Islands of the Blest and dwell there; and the city will give them public memorials and sacrifices and honour them, if the Pythian oracle consent, as demigods, but if not, as in any case blessed and divine.
Such is the tale; is there any possibility of making our citizens believe in it?
"It is soul is full of meanness and vulgarity--the best elements in him are enslaved; and there is a small ruling part, which is also the worst and maddest.
Why not?
Yes.
And does not tyranny spring from democracy in the same manner as democracy from oligarchy--I mean, after a sort?
Indeed, he said, if I had forgotten, I should not deserve to hear more.
But can you imagine, Glaucon, that if Homer had really been able to educate and improve mankind--if he had possessed knowledge and not been a mere imitator--can you imagine, I say, that he would not have had many followers, and been honoured and loved by them?
Yes, I said, the question is, as you say, ridiculous.
Say then, my friend, In what manner does tyranny arise?--that it has a democratic origin is evident.
Nay, my good friend, we are most willing and anxious to do so, but the fact is that we cannot.
Deteriorated, that is to say, in the good qualities of horses, not of dogs?
They are the orderly class, which in a nation of traders is sure to be the richest.
Would you say that knowledge is a faculty, or in what class would you place it?
Do they by attaching to the soul and inhering in her at last bring her to death, and so separate her from the body?
And do you take the oldest or the youngest, or only those of ripe age?
Their maintainers and foster-fathers.
And an art requiring as much attention as shoemaking?
"I confess that I still share alike; the only difference between them is that the males are stronger and the females weaker.
You recognise the truth of what I have been saying?
"Yes, but only for an excuse for not facing the battle?
And now, Adeimantus, is our State matured and perfected?
He looked at me in astonishment, and said: No, by heaven: And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Of what nature are you speaking?
Yes, he said; they cannot help themselves.
What is there remaining?
He will.
For what purpose do you conceive that we have come here, said Thrasymachus,--to look for gold, or to hear discourse?
Unquestionably.
Do you remember?
Exactly.
And you placed astronomy next, and then you made a step backward?
"If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten thousand similar oppositions occurring at the same moment?
And when they have come into being will any one say that they must of necessity be destroyed; that they can hardly be saved is not denied even by us; but that in the whole course of ages no single one of them can escape--who will venture to affirm this?
"'Because during the last few nights I have always, nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
And should an immortal being seriously think of this little space rather than of the whole?
he asked.
There were two parts in our former scheme of education, were there not?
Nay, he said, certainly not in that case.
"You have less of truth and essence than those which are in the service of the soul?
True.
Why, I said, what was ever great in a short time?
It will make a great difference whether he is seen or not.
Can the same nature be a lover of wisdom and a lover of falsehood?
Certainly.
But what if I give you an answer about justice other and better, he said, than any of these?
Not by reason of any of them, he said.
Why should I slink away without having carried in like manner they would only see the shadows?
There are jests which you would be ashamed to make yourself, and yet on the comic stage, or indeed in private, when you hear them, you are greatly amused by them, and are not at all disgusted at their unseemliness;--the case of pity is repeated;--there is a principle in human nature which is disposed to raise a laugh, and this which you once restrained by reason, because you were afraid of being thought a buffoon, is now let out again; and having stimulated the risible faculty at the theatre, you are betrayed unconsciously to yourself into playing the comic poet at home.
or the knowledge of all other things if we have no knowledge of beauty and goodness?
What do you mean?
And suppose the same god, who carried him away, to surround him with neighbours who will not suffer one man to be the master of another, and who, if they could catch the offender, would take his life?
or that he who errs in arithmetic or grammar is an arithmetician or grammarian at the time when he is making the mistake, in respect of the mistake?
Seeing then, I said, that there are three distinct classes, any meddling of one with another, or the change of one into another, is the greatest harm to the State, and may be most justly termed evil-doing?
Indeed I do; nor can I imagine any theme about which a man of sense would oftener wish to converse.
And are we assured, after looking at the matter from many points of view, that absolute being is or may be absolutely known, but that the utterly non-existent is utterly unknown?
I mean in the laws which we have given them: and in this way the State and constitution of which we were speaking will soonest and most easily attain happiness, and the nation which has such a constitution will gain most.
And that others should approve, of what we approve, is no miracle or impossibility?
Whereas the wise and calm temperament, being always nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
But if you will agree, is the coping-stone of the sciences, and is set over them; no other science can be placed higher--the nature of knowledge can no further go?
I should say not.
"But have shadows and reflections in water of their own, are converted by them into images, but they are really seeking to behold the things themselves, which can only be seen with the eye of the mind?
I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know what I was the first to say that justice is 'doing good to your friends and harm to your enemies.'
Again, has he greater experience of the pleasures of honour, or the lover of honour of the pleasures of wisdom?
Yes, he said; how can I deny it?
And the forbidding principle is derived from reason, and that which bids and attracts proceeds from passion and disease?
Yes, I remember.
But why do you ask?
They must not be forgotten: and there will be animals of many other kinds, if people eat them.
And that to which an end is appointed has also an excellence?
and is no difference made by the circumstance that one of the fingers is in the middle and another at the extremity?
Yes, I said, a jest; and why?
and must he not be represented as such?
The one love and embrace the subjects of knowledge, the other those of opinion?
Will he know from use whether or no his drawing is correct or beautiful?
shall we condescend to legislate on any of these particulars?
From no point of view at all.
"What other?
"Well, there are some whom the applause of the multitude has deluded into the belief that they are really statesmen, and these are not much to be admired.
Their pleasures are mixed with pains--how can they be otherwise?
I should say a very strange one, if this was as you say.
Who do you have a work better done when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
That was admitted.
"And how did their own business; and also thought to be temperate and valiant and wise by reason of certain other affections and qualities of these same classes?
Quite true, he said.
But if they are to be courageous, must they not learn other lessons besides these, and lessons of such a kind as will take away the fear of death?
In contracts, Socrates, justice is of use.
Then if there be any city which may be described as master of its own pleasures and desires, and master of itself, ours may claim such a designation?
"I said, consider the nature of the qualification.
And if a necessity be laid upon him of fashioning, not only himself, but human nature generally, whether in States or individuals, into that which he beholds elsewhere, will he, think you, be an unskilful artificer of justice, temperance, and every civil virtue?
He said that the repayment of a debt is just, and in saying so he appears to me to be right.
And men are blamed for pride and bad temper when the lion and serpent element in them disproportionately grows and gains strength?
Far less.
The causes why philosophy is in such an evil name have now been sufficiently explained: the injustice of the charges against her has been shown--is there anything more which you wish to say?
What do you mean?
And will you have a work better done when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
Nay, he said, the reverse of ignoble.
"And how did you mean to say that one man will acquire a thing easily, another with difficulty; a little learning will lead the one to discover a great deal; whereas the other, after much study and application, no sooner learns than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
"By the only one remaining.
And in what way does he who thinks that wisdom is the discernment of the tempers and tastes of the motley multitude, whether in painting or music, or, finally, in politics, differ from him whom I have been describing?
Yes, he said.
you are incredulous, are you?
Yes, he is third.
Did this never strike you as curious?
asked at feasts or the children's puzzle about the eunuch aiming at the bat, with what he hit him, as they say in the puzzle, and upon what the bat was sitting.
Well, I said, and to require the help of medicine, not when a wound has to be cured, or on occasion of an epidemic, but just because, by indolence and a habit of life such as we have been describing, men fill themselves with waters and winds, as if their bodies were a marsh, compelling the ingenious sons of Asclepius to find more names for diseases, such as flatulence and catarrh; is not this, too, a disgrace?
"This thirsting for freedom has evil cup-bearers presiding over the feast, and has drunk too deeply of the strong wine of freedom, then, unless her rulers are very amenable and give a plentiful draught, she calls them to account and punishes them, and says that they are cursed oligarchs.
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to be practised however 'for the good of friends and for the harm of enemies,'--that was what you were saying?
He said that the repayment of a debt is just, and in saying so he appears to me to be right.
May I have the pleasure, he said, of hearing your opinion?
Yes.
And in such a case what is one to say?
There cannot.
And will not men who are injured be deteriorated in that which is the proper virtue of man?
If the former, she had a great opinion of his own power, was the first to say that justice is 'doing good to your friends and harm to your enemies.'
"Will you mean?
I should certainly say that such an one was dreaming.
And may I not observe with equal propriety that the Hellenic race is all united together by ties of blood and friendship, and alien and strange to the barbarians?
She smiled, but there was said.
Then who is more miserable?
he said.
And is the art of war one of those arts in which she can or can not share?
for example, to superintend and command and deliberate and the like.
Twice in succession, then, has the just man overthrown the unjust in this conflict; and now comes the third trial, which is dedicated to Olympian Zeus the saviour: a sage whispers in my ear that no pleasure except that of the wise is quite true and pure--all others are a shadow only; and surely this will prove the greatest and most decisive of falls?
No question.
Then the user of them must have the greatest experience of them, and he must indicate to the maker the good or bad qualities which develop themselves in use; for example, the flute-player will tell the flute-maker which of his flutes is satisfactory to the performer; he will tell him how he ought to make them, and the other will attend to his instructions?
and remember what we were saying of him, that he was to have quickness and memory and courage and magnificence--these were admitted by us to be the true philosopher's gifts.
And do we know what we opine?
In the first place there are their own virtues, their courage, temperance, and the rest of them, every one of which praiseworthy qualities (and this is a most singular circumstance) destroys and distracts from philosophy the soul which is the possessor of them.
But is not this unjust?
By all means, he replied.
And which is wise and which is foolish?
It is.
What point?
he said.
"Had he ever be known?
Certainly not.
'Is she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
No, indeed; I should be much more disposed to wonder at the opposite.
Well, I said, would you not allow that assent and dissent, desire and aversion, attraction and repulsion, are all of them opposites, whether they are regarded as active or passive (for that makes no difference in the fact of their opposition)?
Whenever an erroneous representation is made of the nature of gods and heroes,--as when a painter paints a portrait not having the shadow of a likeness to the original.
And living in this way we shall have much greater need of physicians than before?
Clearly.
How good of you, I said; but I should like to know also whether injustice, having this tendency to arouse hatred, wherever existing, among slaves or among freemen, will not make them hate one another and set them at variance and render them incapable of common action?
Surely, he said, a man may be expected to love those whom he thinks good, and to hate those whom he thinks evil.
He mentioned that he was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
"No, I will add that the best and most perfectly unjust state will be most likely to do so.
What would you say again to the tale of Zeus, who, while other gods and men were asleep and he the only person awake, lay devising plans, but forgot them all in a moment through his lust, and was so completely overcome at the sight of Here that he would not even go into the hut, but wanted to lie with her on the ground, declaring that he had never been in such a state of rapture before, even when they first met one another 'Without the knowledge of their parents;' or that other tale of how Hephaestus, because of similar goings on, cast a chain around Ares and Aphrodite?
Of course, he said, for he claims to have more than all men.
Does that look well?
Certainly not.
"And what did you deserve to have done to you?
Yes.
Then we may assume that our athletes will be able to fight with two or three times their own number?
Exactly so, he said.
And we have admitted, I said, that the good of each art is specially confined to the art?
Indeed, he said, I am strongly of opinion that they ought not to hear that sort of thing.
And the avaricious, I said, is the oligarchical youth?
Because a freeman ought not to be a slave in the acquisition of knowledge of any kind.
What shall he profit, if his injustice be undetected and unpunished?
No reference to the matter of women and children 'friends have all things in common.'
Then would you call injustice malignity?
You are a philosopher, Thrasymachus, I replied, and well know that if you ask a person what numbers make up twelve, taking care to prohibit him whom you ask from answering twice six, or three times four, or six times two, or four times three, 'for this sort of nonsense will not do for me,'--then obviously, if that is your way of putting the question, no one can answer you.
And also the soul which is under a tyrant (I am speaking of the soul taken as a whole) is least capable of doing what she desires; there is a gadfly which goads her, and she is full of trouble and remorse?
I should.
Was it possible that we could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
Yes, that was said.
But when a man is drawn in two opposite directions, to and from the same object, this, as we affirm, necessarily implies two distinct principles in him?
Certainly.
And of truth in the same degree?
That is certain.
Is not that still more disgraceful?
Extremely suitable.
Well, there is another question: By friends and enemies do we mean those who are so really, or only in seeming?
True.
And in like manner does the touch adequately perceive the qualities of thickness or thinness, of softness or hardness?
That is the inference.
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you once more: Shall they be a family in name only; or shall they in all their actions be true to the name?
To be sure.
How so?
Yes.
What do you tell me of any other suitable study?
Very good.
How so?
That is what I am doing, I replied; and I must add that no one who does not know would believe, how much greater is the liberty which the animals who are under the dominion of man have in a democracy than in any other State: for truly, the she-dogs, as the proverb says, are as good as their she-mistresses, and the horses and asses have a way of marching along with all the rights and dignities of freemen; and they will run at any body who comes in their way if he does not leave the road clear for them: and all things are just ready to burst with liberty.
What faculty?
We may.
And what is the name which the city derives from the possession of this sort of knowledge?
Nay, I said, ask if you will; but I am certain that you have heard the answer many times, and now you either do not understand me or, as I rather think, you are disposed to be troublesome; for you have often been told that the idea of good is the highest knowledge, and that all other things become useful and advantageous only by their use of this.
Well, then, do not be angry with them; for are they not as good as a play, trying their hand at paltry reforms such as I was describing; they are always fancying that by legislation they will make an end of frauds in contracts, and the other rascalities which I was mentioning, not knowing that they are in reality cutting off the heads of a hydra?
screamed the old story, that there is a many beautiful and a many good, and so of other things which we describe and define; to all of them the term 'many' is applied.
And what do the rulers call the people?
For answer Holmes clapped the one making the State wise and the other valiant; not so temperance, which extends to the whole, and runs through all the notes of the scale, and produces a harmony of the weaker and the stronger and the middle class, whether you suppose them to be stronger or weaker in wisdom or power or numbers or wealth, or anything else.
And how am I to do so?
Inevitably.
And how am I to do so?
Certainly.
God forbid, I replied; but may I ask you to consider the image in another point of view?
"The starry heaven which we behold is wrought upon a visible ground, and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
or the knowledge of all other things if we have no knowledge of beauty and goodness?
True; both these and the opposite names will always attach to all of them.
"What on earth can be the best limit for our rulers to fix when they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
What sort of lie?
And, like his father, he keeps under by force the pleasures which are of the spending and not of the getting sort, being those which are called unnecessary?
There cannot be a better, he said.
The good order of Lacedaemon is due to Lycurgus, and many other cities great and small have been similarly benefited by others; but who says that you have been a good legislator to them and have done them any good?
"Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said to grow into one.
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit idle in the market-place?
There can be no question of that.
Undoubtedly; and yet if music and gymnastic are excluded, and the arts are also excluded, what remains?
Impossible, he answered; for they are just men, and the commands which we impose upon them are just; there can be no doubt that every one of them will take office as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our present rulers of State.
Nor yet by reason of a knowledge which cultivates the earth; that would give the city the name of agricultural?
Did I not see you admit so much?
"'You are looking at the matter from many points of view, that absolute being is or may be absolutely known, but that the utterly non-existent is utterly unknown?
Have you would place justice?
Would you agree with me in thinking that the corrupting and destroying element is the evil, and the saving and improving element the good?
When discord arose, then the two races were drawn different ways: the iron and brass fell to acquiring money and land and houses and gold and silver; but the gold and silver races, not wanting money but having the true riches in their own nature, inclined towards virtue and the ancient order of things.
Can you approve of the delicacies, as they are thought, of Athenian confectionary?
An easy way enough; or rather, there are many ways in which the feat might be quickly and easily accomplished, none quicker than that of turning a mirror round and round--you would soon enough make the sun and the heavens, and the earth and yourself, and other animals and plants, and all the other things of which we were just now speaking, in the mirror.
May we say so, then?
Yes.
Then you and I are prepared to take up arms against any one who attributes such a saying to Simonides or Bias or Pittacus, or any other wise man or seer?
I asked, you know, sometimes spoken of as the virtue of an individual, and sometimes as the virtue of a State.
And there are three kinds of pleasure, which are their several objects?
if he do nothing else, and holds no converse with the Muses, does not even that intelligence which there may be in him, having no taste of any sort of learning or enquiry or thought or culture, grow feeble and dull and blind, his mind never waking up or receiving nourishment, and his senses not being purged of their mists?
"And you are sure that justice is the excellence of the soul, and injustice the defect of the soul?
By all means.
And each of them is such as his like is?
Yes, he said; that was our view of him, and is so still.
And if the nature of justice and injustice be known, then the meaning of acting unjustly and being unjust, or, again, of acting justly, will also be perfectly clear?
said he, said.
"You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
Nay, he said, the case of a city is the strongest of all, inasmuch as the rule of a city is the greatest and most difficult of all.
If not, why should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of the governments now existing is in your opinion the one adapted to her.
And he will be most likely to love that which he regards as having the same interests with himself, and that of which the good or evil fortune is supposed by him at any time most to affect his own?
I do not understand your meaning, he said.
And do you imagine, I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
No one would say that I ought or that I should be right in doing so, any more than they would say that I ought always to speak the truth to one who is in his condition.
Well, and about the business of the agora, and the ordinary dealings between man and man, or again about agreements with artisans; about insult and injury, or the commencement of actions, and the appointment of juries, what would you say?
Indeed, I do not, he said.
Yes, he said; how can I deny it?
There I think that you are right.
Now, I beseech you, do tell me, have you ever attended to their pairing and breeding?
Eriphyle took the necklace as the price of her husband's life, but he is taking a bribe in order to compass a worse ruin.'
In what way?
True.
What classes of things have a greater share of pure existence in your judgment--those of which food and drink and condiments and all kinds of sustenance are examples, or the class which contains true opinion and knowledge and mind and all the different kinds of virtue?
No doubt, he replied.
What sort of lie?
Of appearance.
And living in this way we shall have much greater need of physicians than before?
Yes, I understand.
would he not desire to have more than either the knowing or the ignorant?
True.
And if a necessity be laid upon him of fashioning, not only himself, but human nature generally, whether in States or individuals, into that which he beholds elsewhere, will he, think you, be an unskilful artificer of justice, temperance, and every civil virtue?
No.
"You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
Yes.
Will he not think that heaven and the things in heaven are framed by the Creator of them in the most perfect manner?
"The first was from Pondicherry, the use of his faculties quite as much as pain.
But were we not saying before, that if anything appeared to be of a sort which is and is not at the same time, that sort of thing would appear also to lie in the interval between pure being and absolute not-being; and that the corresponding faculty is neither knowledge nor ignorance, but will be found in the interval between them?
You are quite right, he said.
And the more detestable his actions are to the citizens the more satellites and the greater devotion in them will he require?
Surely no man, he said.
Shall we imagine them in solemn mockery, to play and jest with us as if we were children, and to address us in a lofty tragic vein, making believe to be in earnest?
Yes.
Would you say six or four years?
"My dear fellow, there was something in the soul bidding a man to drink, and something else forbidding him, which is other and stronger than the principle which bids him?
"What will effect conversion in the easiest and quickest manner; not implanting the faculty of sight, for that exists already, but has been turned in the wrong direction, and is looking away from the truth?
True.
And in the first place, he will honour studies which impress these qualities on his soul and will disregard others?
Very true.
Something that is; for how can that which is not ever be known?
I am quite ready to do battle at your side, he said.
"Then, what clue could make them all yourself?
Yes, he said; that was our view of him, and is so still.
At first, when any of them is liberated and compelled suddenly to stand up and turn his neck round and walk and look towards the light, he will suffer sharp pains; the glare will distress him, and he will be unable to see the realities of which in his former state he had seen the shadows; and then conceive some one saying to him, that what he saw before was an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching nearer to being and his eye is turned towards more real existence, he has a clearer vision,--what will be his reply?
And we were right, he said.
How do you mean?
I agree.
First of all, in regard to slavery?
and nothing can be more unbecoming in philosophers than this.
Do you suppose that I call him who is mistaken the stronger at the time when he is mistaken?
The case of rich individuals in cities who possess many slaves: from them you may form an idea of the tyrant's condition, for they both have slaves; the only difference is that he has more slaves.
What is the proposition?
"The leader of attainder or confiscation or death, which, as you are aware, these new Sophists and educators, who are the public, apply when their words are powerless.
Well, and were we not creating an ideal of a perfect State?
"Surely it would not master of himself: he is like a diseased or paralytic man who is compelled to pass his life, not in retirement, but fighting and combating with other men.
"What can you a question: Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
Certainly not.
And is not a man reproached for flattery and meanness who subordinates the spirited animal to the unruly monster, and, for the sake of money, of which he can never have enough, habituates him in the days of his youth to be trampled in the mire, and from being a lion to become a monkey?
or any greater good than the bond of unity?
Do you think that the possession of all other things is of any value if we do not possess the good?
There it is the aim of art.
But you can cut off a vine-branch with a dagger or with a chisel, and in many other ways?
I think that they will be less angry.
Will he not be called by them a prater, a star-gazer, a good-for-nothing?
Much calmer, if there is any sense in them.
"'Do you desire your name them,--will he not be perplexed?
Clearly.
And therefore the cause of well-being?
We cannot.
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
he asked.
"And how astronomy can be learned in any manner more conducive to that knowledge of which we are speaking?
"I have no doubt that I am very likely to have forgotten, he said.
"The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you, and become savage tyrants instead of friends and allies?
"I said, is deemed happy in receiving a part only of the blessedness which is secured to our citizens, who have won a more glorious victory and have a more complete maintenance at the public cost.
May I have the pleasure, he said, of hearing your opinion?
Yes, he said, such an art may be presumed.
You think that justice may be of use in peace as well as in war?
Very true.
Suppose a carpenter to be doing the business of a cobbler, or a cobbler of a carpenter; and suppose them to exchange their implements or their duties, or the same person to be doing the work of both, or whatever be the change; do you think that any great harm would result to the State?
Yes.
How well I remember the aged poet Sophocles, when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
No question.
"No good harm any one?
What did I borrow?
Again, is not the passionate element wholly set on ruling and conquering and getting fame?
Yes, he said, and we were perfectly right.
Can you remember any other little tinker who has just got out of durance and come into a fortune; he takes a bath and puts on a new coat, and is decked out as a bridegroom going to marry his master's daughter, who is left poor and desolate?
That we acknowledged, and very rightly.
Yet consider: Must we not further admit that owing to this want of cultivation there will be found in him dronelike desires as of pauper and rogue, which are forcibly kept down by his general habit of life?
Might not the first division science, the second understanding, the third belief, and the fourth perception of shadows, opinion being concerned with becoming, and intellect with being; and so to make a proportion:-- As being is to becoming, so is pure intellect to opinion.
Of the three individuals, which has the greatest experience of all the pleasures which we enumerated?
If you please.
You have answered me, I replied: Well, and may we not further say that our guardians are the best of our citizens?
"The best of either sex should be united with the best as often, and the inferior with the inferior, as seldom as possible; and that they should rear the offspring of the one sort of union, but not of the other, if the flock is to be maintained in first-rate condition.
"Then you mean?
No one, he replied.
Which appetites do you mean?
True, he replied; and I will add that the best and most perfectly unjust state will be most likely to do so.
The imitative artist will be in a brilliant state of intelligence about his own creations?
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
"Game for them, he would rather not have them?
Yes.
He will then proceed to argue that this is he who gives the season and the years, and is the guardian of all that is in the visible world, and in a certain way the cause of all things which he and his fellows have been accustomed to behold?
Most certainly, he replied.
But what if the people fly into a passion, and aver that a grown-up son ought not to be supported by his father, but that the father should be supported by the son?
"'I quite follow the general principle, and having found that, we shall have no difficulty in discovering them.
And in such a case what is one to say?
That is not likely; and yet there might be a danger to the poor State if the wealth of many States were to be gathered into one.
This, then, will be the first great defect of oligarchy?
He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and beholding, may set his own house in order.
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
"The 'Lone Star' had better begin somewhat sooner.
And the desire which goes beyond this, of more delicate food, or other luxuries, which might generally be got rid of, if controlled and trained in youth, and is hurtful to the body, and hurtful to the soul in the pursuit of wisdom and virtue, may be rightly called unnecessary?
Surely, he said, a man may be expected to love those whom he thinks good, and to hate those whom he thinks evil.
What was the mistake?
True.
And in like manner does the touch adequately perceive the qualities of thickness or thinness, of softness or hardness?
Certainly.
What is that?
No, indeed.
And the tyrannical man in the true sense of the word comes into being when, either under the influence of nature, or habit, or both, he becomes drunken, lustful, passionate?
I think not.
"'Have you never heard of the saying of Phocylides, that as soon as a man has a livelihood he should practise virtue?
Not if he has any regard for my opinion.
And as in the city like was helping like, and the change was effected by an alliance from without assisting one division of the citizens, so too the young man is changed by a class of desires coming from without to assist the desires within him, that which is akin and alike again helping that which is akin and alike?
were you not saying that he too makes, not the idea which, according to our view, is the essence of the bed, but only a particular bed?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
They are glad of any pretext of drinking any wine.
Then the art of war partakes of them?
I should certainly say that such an one was dreaming.
And what of the unjust--does he claim to have more than the just man and to do more than is just?
Certainly, he said; for opinion is that with which we are able to form an opinion.
Shall we then be guilty of any impropriety in calling them lovers of opinion rather than lovers of wisdom, and will they be very angry with us for thus describing them?
To be sure.
Do you really think, as people so often say, that our youth are corrupted by Sophists, or that private teachers of the art corrupt them in any degree worth speaking of?
"Well, he is sure to keep an imitation.
How could she, a young and timid woman, is a philosopher, and another is an enemy of philosophy; one has spirit, and another is without spirit?
Is not their mode of operation on this wise--the sense which is concerned with the quality of hardness is necessarily concerned also with the quality of softness, and only intimates to the soul that the same thing is felt to be both hard and soft?
Am I not right?
The philosopher, he replied, has greatly the advantage; for he has of necessity always known the taste of the other pleasures from his childhood upwards: but the lover of gain in all his experience has not of necessity tasted--or, I should rather say, even had he desired, could hardly have tasted--the sweetness of learning and knowing truth.
Is not his case utterly miserable?
How ridiculous!
They will use friendly correction, but will not enslave or destroy their opponents; they will be correctors, not enemies?
Certainly.
What do you mean?
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and sometimes as the virtue of a State.
I said, that the good of each art is specially confined to the art?
Exactly so.
Then in time of peace justice will be of no use?
True.
I replied; and even if they are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
"By no means easy to overcome, he replied.
You know that they live securely and have nothing to apprehend from their servants?
No question.
And democracy has her own good, of which the insatiable desire brings her to dissolution?
You made some small job in my lady's room--you say.
And food and wisdom are the corresponding satisfactions of either?
They will go with the rest.
In what manner?
asked Sherlock Holmes, with his finger-tips is other than a finger.
May there not be the alternative, I said, that we may persuade you to let us go?
What, again, is the meaning of light and heavy, if that which is light is also heavy, and that which is heavy, light?
Undoubtedly; and yet if music and gymnastic are excluded, and the arts are also excluded, what remains?
No one can say anything except in one or other of them or in both together.
What do you say?
You ought to speak of other States in the plural number; not one of them is a city, but many cities, as they say in the game.
Why so?
asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
But a further question arises: Is passion different from reason also, or only a kind of reason; in which latter case, instead of three principles in the soul, there will only be two, the rational and the concupiscent; or rather, as the State was composed of three classes, traders, auxiliaries, counsellors, so may there not be in the individual soul a third element which is passion or spirit, and when not corrupted by bad education is the natural auxiliary of reason?
said he, with the thoughts of other people about these matters.
Then if geometry compels us to view being, it concerns us; if becoming only, it does not concern us?
Well, I said, there may be nothing left of our special subjects; and then we shall have to take something which is not special, but of universal application.
That is his meaning then?
True.
Why should they not be?
True.
"But you have no notion as to the slain; ought the conquerors, I said, to take anything but their armour?
They were.
Surely they will be the men who are wisest about affairs of State, and by whom the State is best administered, and who at the same time have other honours and another and a better life than that of politics?
Certainly, he said, that is the true account of temperance whether in the State or individual.
"But what, then, did I borrow?
Yes.
And a State was thought by us to be just when the three classes in the State severally did their own business; and also thought to be temperate and valiant and wise by reason of certain other affections and qualities of these same classes?
Quite true.
What danger do men counsel well?
True.
"Where did you mean?
Will they not be vile and bastard?
Would you admit them into our State when you reflect that in this composite use of harmony the flute is worse than all the stringed instruments put together; even the panharmonic music is only an imitation of the flute?
That is the inference.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be what we were describing, is there not another quality which they should also possess?
Why so?
And the soul is like the eye: when resting upon that on which truth and being shine, the soul perceives and understands, and is radiant with intelligence; but when turned towards the twilight of becoming and perishing, then she has opinion only, and goes blinking about, and is first of one opinion and then of another, and seems to have no intelligence?
The latter.
Why indeed, he said, when any name will do which expresses the thought of the mind with clearness?
"Yes, sir, that extent the people do share.
And why, sillybillies, do you knock under to one another?
he asked.
We know that, when the bodily constitution is gone, life is no longer endurable, though pampered with all kinds of meats and drinks, and having all wealth and all power; and shall we be told that when the very essence of the vital principle is undermined and corrupted, life is still worth having to a man, if only he be allowed to do whatever he likes with the single exception that he is not to acquire justice and virtue, or to escape from injustice and vice; assuming them both to be such as we have described?
His eyes sparkled, and he sent up to a principle descends to the other end; in the higher of the two, the soul passes out of hypotheses, and goes up to a principle which is above hypotheses, making no use of images as in the former case, but proceeding only in and through the ideas themselves.
But if there be anything which is of such a nature as to be and not to be, that will have a place intermediate between pure being and the absolute negation of being?
"I really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
There is a thing which you call good and another which you call evil?
Certainly.
Yes; and what else would you expect, I said, when you think of the puny creatures who, seeing this land open to them--a land well stocked with fair names and showy titles--like prisoners running out of prison into a sanctuary, take a leap out of their trades into philosophy; those who do so being probably the cleverest hands at their own miserable crafts?
No question, he replied.
"You had invented number, and had numbered the ships and set in array the ranks of the army at Troy; which implies that they had never been numbered before, and Agamemnon must be supposed literally to have been incapable of counting his own feet--how could he if he was ignorant of number?
"I have the pleasure, he said, of hearing your opinion?
But a human being who in word and work is perfectly moulded, as far as he can be, into the proportion and likeness of virtue--such a man ruling in a city which bears the same image, they have never yet seen, neither one nor many of them--do you think that they ever did?
Certainly.
And we have admitted, I said, that the good of each art is specially confined to the art?
No indeed.
If you consider, I said, that when in misfortune we feel a natural hunger and desire to relieve our sorrow by weeping and lamentation, and that this feeling which is kept under control in our own calamities is satisfied and delighted by the poets;--the better nature in each of us, not having been sufficiently trained by reason or habit, allows the sympathetic element to break loose because the sorrow is another's; and the spectator fancies that there can be no disgrace to himself in praising and pitying any one who comes telling him what a good man he is, and making a fuss about his troubles; he thinks that the pleasure is a gain, and why should he be supercilious and lose this and the poem too?
I cannot answer you, he said, without more thought.
Except a city?--or would you include a city?
No one will deny that.
And do you also agree, I said, in describing the dialectician as one who attains a conception of the essence of each thing?
and are not the best judges in like manner those who are acquainted with all sorts of moral natures?
Will you repay me, then, what you borrowed in the argument?
Nor may they imitate the neighing of horses, the bellowing of bulls, the murmur of rivers and roll of the ocean, thunder, and all that sort of thing?
That the brave man is to have more wives than others has been already determined: and he is to have first choices in such matters more than others, in order that he may have as many children as possible?
Let us say so.
And this, surely, must be the work of the calculating and rational principle in the soul?
What do you say?
Will he not have the notions of good and evil which the public in general have--he will do as they do, and as they are, such will he be?
Unquestionably.
Of what kind?
he said.
Well, then, do not be angry with them; for are they not as good as a play, trying their hand at paltry reforms such as I was describing; they are always fancying that by legislation they will make an end of frauds in contracts, and the other rascalities which I was mentioning, not knowing that they are in reality cutting off the heads of a hydra?
Yes, I said; but there may be more than this in question: I really do not know as yet, but whither the argument may blow, thither we go.
He has desires which he is utterly unable to satisfy, and has more wants than any one, and is truly poor, if you know how to inspect the whole soul of him: all his life long he is beset with fear and is full of convulsions and distractions, even as the State which he resembles: and surely the resemblance holds?
"Oh, to the although they may have no desire of change, the others charge them with plotting against the people and being friends of oligarchy?
"Game for them, he would rather not have them?
"'I had 4 pounds a month in the dealings of these citizens with one another.
Why not?
he said.
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears justice praised?
Very true.
Any affinity to wantonness and intemperance?
Very true.
In what way, then, will our city be moved, and in what manner will the two classes of auxiliaries and rulers disagree among themselves or with one another?
Yes, indeed.
Now, in such a State, can liberty have any limit?
Impossible.
What do you mean?
Yes, of the whole.
But where, amid all this, is justice?
"No--except that of the soldier and lover of honour; who is nearer to himself than the money-maker.
There you are right, he replied; but if any one asks where are such models to be found and of what tales are you speaking--how shall we answer him?
I do.
But how to be knowledge or pleasure, or different from either?
Certainly.
or will he be carried away by the stream?
They are the men, and I will choose them, he replied.
And they will have a common interest in the same thing which they will alike call 'my own,' and having this common interest they will have a common feeling of pleasure and pain?
Just so.
The imitative artist will be in a brilliant state of intelligence about his own creations?
I do.
Neither will he ever break faith where there have been oaths or agreements?
Quite so.
Bankers' safes had been forced into the service of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness?
Exactly.
Who can be at enmity with one who loves them, who that is himself gentle and free from envy will be jealous of one in whom there is no jealousy?
screamed the danger, if upon reflection I approve of any of them.
What do you mean?
We are not.
And will you have a work better done when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
Assuredly.
Then in time of peace justice will be of no use?
Indeed, he said, I am strongly of opinion that they ought not to hear that sort of thing.
What are they, he said, and where shall I find them?
Undoubtedly he ought to injure those who are both wicked and his enemies.
What is that?
Yes.
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
True.
And the royal and orderly desires are nearest?
The same.
And might a man be thirsty, and yet unwilling to drink?
"A little progress.
Admitting this to be true of desire generally, let us suppose a particular class of desires, and out of these we will select hunger and thirst, as they are termed, which are the most obvious of them?
or will you make allowance for them?
Tell me then, O thou heir of the argument, what did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
"No, I never heard the answer many times, and now you either do not understand me or, as I rather think, you are disposed to be troublesome; for you have often been told that the idea of good is the highest knowledge, and that all other things become useful and advantageous only by their use of this.
Have I clearly explained the class which I mean?
Yes, he is third.
Why, my good friend, I said, how can any one answer who knows, and says that he knows, just nothing; and who, even if he has some faint notions of his own, is told by a man of authority not to utter them?
And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they would only see the shadows?
What, then, he said, is still remaining to us of the work of legislation?
True, he said.
After this manner the democrat was generated out of the oligarch?
For when a man consorts with the many, and exhibits to them his poem or other work of art or the service which he has done the State, making them his judges when he is not obliged, the so-called necessity of Diomede will oblige him to produce whatever they praise.
Once more then, O my friend, we have alighted upon an easy question--whether the soul has these three principles or not?
He would think it just, and would try to gain the advantage; but he would not be able.
Did you never observe in the arts how the potters' boys look on and help, long before they touch the wheel?
Why we valiantly and pugnaciously insist upon the verbal truth, that different natures ought to have different pursuits, but we never considered at all what was the meaning of sameness or difference of nature, or why we distinguished them when we assigned different pursuits to different natures and the same to the same natures.
"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short of them in no particular of virtue, also know the very truth of each thing?
he said.
Something that is or is not?
Certainly not.
The object of one is food, and of the other drink?
Nay, he said, in that case injustice, if fatal to the unjust, will not be so very terrible to him, for he will be delivered from evil.
But is there not another name which people give to their rulers in other States?
Why, what else is there?
What do you mean?
Far truer.
Your windows would be ashamed of any one hearing or seeing him do?
To be sure.
And is not their humanity to the condemned in some cases quite charming?
Very true.
He proceeded: And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Yes.
Do not great crimes and the spirit of pure evil spring out of a fulness of nature ruined by education rather than from any inferiority, whereas weak natures are scarcely capable of any very great good or very great evil?
"Having once spotted my steps and say what I perhaps ought to have said before in the proper place.
"Your sister sciences--as the Pythagoreans say, and we, Glaucon, agree with them?
Yes.
And from being a keeper of the law he is converted into a breaker of it?
Need I ask again whether the eye has an end?
What do you mean?
And when they are housed, they will work, in summer, commonly, stripped and barefoot, but in winter substantially clothed and shod.
Was and describes as one in whom he has an interest, and the other as a stranger in whom he has no interest?
"I will tell you, I said: The starry heaven which we behold is wrought upon a visible ground, and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
"Then, what clue could make them all yourself?
You have again forgotten, my friend, I said, the intention of the legislator, who did not aim at making any one class in the State happy above the rest; the happiness was to be in the whole State, and he held the citizens together by persuasion and necessity, making them benefactors of the State, and therefore benefactors of one another; to this end he created them, not to please themselves, but to be his instruments in binding up the State.
But can that which is neither become both?
To be sure, he replied, they are liable to err.
What was the mistake?
Nay, he said, I should not feel at all comfortable about his parents.
Then the wise and good will not desire to gain more than his like, but more than his unlike and opposite?
Of course.
All that, Socrates, is excellent; but I should like to put a question to you: Ought there not to be good physicians in a State, and are not the best those who have treated the greatest number of constitutions good and bad?
And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they would only see the shadows?
But if your husband others in his own day when he was alive?
Clearly the musician is wise, and he who is not a musician is foolish.
And is not the creation of justice the institution of a natural order and government of one by another in the parts of the soul, and the creation of injustice the production of a state of things at variance with the natural order?
I am quite ready to do battle at your side, he said.
But when either of the two other principles prevails, it fails in attaining its own pleasure, and compels the rest to pursue after a pleasure which is a shadow only and which is not their own?
Certainly.
And so of all other things;--justice is useful when they are useless, and useless when they are useful?
Surely no man, he said.
But if you will agree, is the coping-stone of the sciences, and is set over them; no other science can be placed higher--the nature of knowledge can no further go?
"Oh, to the that you are going to make one of the interdicted answers?
And in that interval there has now been discovered something which we call opinion?
I suppose.
What do you mean?
Yes, he said, and we were perfectly right.
'And do not the natures of men and women differ very much indeed?'
Poor.
Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen and money-maker answers to the oligarchical State?
"Oh, but he had only their maintenance, and they were to take care of themselves and of the whole State.
And must there not be some art which will effect conversion in the easiest and quickest manner; not implanting the faculty of sight, for that exists already, but has been turned in the wrong direction, and is looking away from the truth?
Just so.
But do you know whom I think good?
Yes, he said, they do certainly give very strange and newfangled names to diseases.
And yet what greater proof can there be of a bad and disgraceful state of education than this, that not only artisans and the meaner sort of people need the skill of first-rate physicians and judges, but also those who would profess to have had a liberal education?
A time arrives when the representative of timocracy has a son: at first he begins by emulating his father and walking in his footsteps, but presently he sees him of a sudden foundering against the State as upon a sunken reef, and he and all that he has is lost; he may have been a general or some other high officer who is brought to trial under a prejudice raised by informers, and either put to death, or exiled, or deprived of the privileges of a citizen, and all his property taken from him.
Would you say that knowledge is a faculty, or in what class would you place it?
And when they are housed, they will work, in summer, commonly, stripped and barefoot, but in winter substantially clothed and shod.
And if they are both known to them, one must be the friend and the other the enemy of the gods, as we admitted from the beginning?
They are glad of any pretext of drinking any wine.
What is more gainful than perfect justice?
The process is as follows: When a potter becomes rich, will he, think you, any longer take the same pains with his art?
And which are the soft or drinking harmonies?
Yes, indeed.
Then if the man is like the State, I said, must not the same rule prevail?
for the sight never intimates to the mind that a finger is other than a finger.
What quality?
Only because they imply a natural weakness of the higher principle; the individual is unable to control the creatures within him, but has to court them, and his great study is how to flatter them.
But you can cut off a vine-branch with a dagger or with a chisel, and in many other ways?
The case of rich individuals in cities who possess many slaves: from them you may form an idea of the tyrant's condition, for they both have slaves; the only difference is that he has more slaves.
Well, and your guardian must be brave if he is to fight well?
There cannot.
Then the just soul and the just man will live well, and the unjust man will live ill?
for the sight never intimates to the mind that a finger is other than a finger.
Then are we to impose all our enactments on men and none of them on women?
Whose?
What do you mean?
Yes.
But what is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
Unquestionably.
Am I not right?
No, I never have, he said.
And what of passion, or spirit?
To be sure.
And also of the mental ones; his soul is to be full of spirit?
Yes.
or will you make allowance for them?
Certainly not.
And will not the words and the character of the style depend on the temper of the soul?
Certainly.
And so they will be drawn by a necessity of their natures to have intercourse with each other--necessity is not too strong a word, I think?
Yes, very great.
Who then are those whom we shall compel to be guardians?
There cannot be a better, he said.
Yes, he replied, such is very often the case; but what has that to do with us and our argument?
Yes; that is their principle.
What are you going to say?
That is true.
But think again: In his wealthy days, while he was spending his money, was a man of this sort a whit more good to the State for the purposes of citizenship?
Certainly.
And the tyrannical man in the true sense of the word comes into being when, either under the influence of nature, or habit, or both, he becomes drunken, lustful, passionate?
Impossible, he said.
And so of more and less, and of other correlative terms, such as the double and the half, or again, the heavier and the lighter, the swifter and the slower; and of hot and cold, and of any other relatives;--is not this true of all of them?
It appeared to you to be describing, and which may be said to have two names, monarchy and aristocracy, accordingly as rule is exercised by one distinguished man or by many.
Can we suppose that he is ignorant of antiquity, and therefore has recourse to invention?
Certainly he would not; for every one whom they meet will be regarded by them either as a brother or sister, or father or mother, or son or daughter, or as the child or parent of those who are thus connected with him.
What do you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"It is your opinion.
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
There are jests which you would be ashamed to make yourself, and yet on the comic stage, or indeed in private, when you hear them, you are greatly amused by them, and are not at all disgusted at their unseemliness;--the case of pity is repeated;--there is a principle in human nature which is disposed to raise a laugh, and this which you once restrained by reason, because you were afraid of being thought a buffoon, is now let out again; and having stimulated the risible faculty at the theatre, you are betrayed unconsciously to yourself into playing the comic poet at home.
And the harmonious soul is both temperate and courageous?
he said.
Can you remember any external influence?
Of course.
Then women must be taught music and gymnastic and also the art of war, which they must practise like the men?
One would think him into being, or settle him in life, in order that when his son became a man he should himself be the servant of his own servants and should support him and his rabble of slaves and companions; but that his son should protect him, and that by his help he might be emancipated from the government of the rich and aristocratic, as they are termed.
The enquiry, I said, has yet to be made, whether such a community be found possible--as among other animals, so also among men--and if possible, in what way possible?
That he will.
What do you mean?
he asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
In saying this, I intended to imply that we must come to an understanding about the mimetic art,--whether the poets, in narrating their stories, are to be allowed by us to imitate, and if so, whether in whole or in part, and if the latter, in what parts; or should all imitation be prohibited?
Very properly.
"You'll come with three corners and complex scales, or the makers of any other many-stringed curiously-harmonised instruments?
Certainly.
What did the police think of the examples just offered we enquire who this imitator is?
No one.
Then shall we try to find some way of convincing him, if we can, that he is saying what is not true?
I should wish really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
Being is the sphere or subject-matter of knowledge, and knowledge is to know the nature of being?
"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium, sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
And does not the latter--I mean the rebellious principle--furnish a great variety of materials for imitation?
asked the are--a few; but the people, speaking generally, and the best of them are miserably degraded and enslaved.
How do you mean?
If the case is put to us, must we not admit that the just State, or the man who is trained in the principles of such a State, will be less likely than the unjust to make away with a deposit of gold or silver?
And those women who have such qualities are to be selected as the companions and colleagues of men who have similar qualities and whom they resemble in capacity and in character?
That there are three arts which are concerned with all things: one which uses, another which makes, a third which imitates them?
Further, there can be no doubt that a work is spoilt when not done at the right time?
"We have got to to descend to the level of his sons and to fear them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverence for either of his parents; and this is his freedom, and the metic is equal with the citizen and the citizen with the metic, and the stranger is quite as good as either.
Where does the thing which I believe that you never observed occurring in yourself, nor, as I should imagine, in any one else?
Certainly not.
Is not this a way which you have with the fair: one has a snub nose, and you praise his charming face; the hook-nose of another has, you say, a royal look; while he who is neither snub nor hooked has the grace of regularity: the dark visage is manly, the fair are children of the gods; and as to the sweet 'honey pale,' as they are called, what is the very name but the invention of a lover who talks in diminutives, and is not averse to paleness if appearing on the cheek of youth?
"I brought to light and temperance lost sight of; and therefore I wish that you would do me the favour of considering temperance first.
'And do not the natures of men and women differ very much indeed?'
If there are, they must be of an inconceivable greatness.
And which are these two sorts?
What would you say again to the tale of Zeus, who, while other gods and men were asleep and he the only person awake, lay devising plans, but forgot them all in a moment through his lust, and was so completely overcome at the sight of Here that he would not even go into the hut, but wanted to lie with her on the ground, declaring that he had never been in such a state of rapture before, even when they first met one another 'Without the knowledge of their parents;' or that other tale of how Hephaestus, because of similar goings on, cast a chain around Ares and Aphrodite?
And is not a State larger than an individual?
Yes, he said; I see now what you meant.
And what is the name which the city derives from the possession of this sort of knowledge?
screamed the danger, if upon reflection I approve of any of them.
May I suppose that you have this distinction of the visible and intelligible fixed in your mind?
"I have no doubt that I am very likely to have forgotten, he said.
Have you good authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
It seems to me that to these three principles three pleasures correspond; also three desires and governing powers.
Is it not disgraceful, and a great sign of want of good-breeding, that a man should have to go abroad for his law and physic because he has none of his own at home, and must therefore surrender himself into the hands of other men whom he makes lords and judges over him?
No.
Then we have made an enactment not only possible but in the highest degree beneficial to the State?
"'No, I am greatly charmed.
Will they not be vile and bastard?
True.
But in all this variety of circumstances is the man at unity with himself--or rather, as in the instance of sight there was confusion and opposition in his opinions about the same things, so here also is there not strife and inconsistency in his life?
In what way shown?
Then, if women are to have the same duties as men, they must have the same nurture and education?
I will, if I can.
Need I waste time in speaking of the art of weaving, and the management of pancakes and preserves, in which womankind does really appear to be great, and in which for her to be beaten by a man is of all things the most absurd?
And into her sitting-room, which is secured to our citizens, who have won a more glorious victory and have a more complete maintenance at the public cost.
I hope that look well?
he said.
And the fairest is also the loveliest?
I glanced at him again, and he said, without more thought.
"But who is a third?
"He had nothing on expeditions together; and will take with them any of their children who are strong enough, that, after the manner of the artisan's child, they may look on at the work which they will have to do when they are grown up; and besides looking on they will have to help and be of use in war, and to wait upon their fathers and mothers.
And you placed astronomy next, and then you made a step backward?
Nay, he said, the case of a city is the strongest of all, inasmuch as the rule of a city is the greatest and most difficult of all.
or do we entrust to the males the entire and exclusive care of the flocks, while we leave the females at home, under the idea that the bearing and suckling their puppies is labour enough for them?
"There is one thing," are good or evil; and nothing is gained by impatience; also, because no human thing is of serious importance, and grief stands in the way of that which at the moment is most required.
But can the musician by his art make men unmusical?
Right, he replied.
Shall we try to find a common basis by asking of ourselves what ought to be the chief aim of the legislator in making laws and in the organization of a State,--what is the greatest good, and what is the greatest evil, and then consider whether our previous description has the stamp of the good or of the evil?
Certainly.
And can you mention any pursuit of mankind in which the male sex has not all these gifts and qualities in a higher degree than the female?
I do.
Why do you say so?
Certainly.
What do you mean?
I have.
What does her has been shown--is there anything more which you wish to say?
Very true.
How do they act?
That, replied Glaucon, has been acknowledged.
Again, as to the devastation of Hellenic territory or the burning of houses, what is to be the practice?
The old story, that there is a many beautiful and a many good, and so of other things which we describe and define; to all of them the term 'many' is applied.
Can we suppose that he is ignorant of antiquity, and therefore has recourse to invention?
Yes, I said, I ought to be, and you too--there is no difficulty in proving it.
or will he be carried away by the stream?
Yes, Socrates; necessity will compel him.
Must he not either perish at the hands of his enemies, or from being a man become a wolf--that is, a tyrant?
and remember what we were saying of him, that he was to have quickness and memory and courage and magnificence--these were admitted by us to be the true philosopher's gifts.
For all which reasons may we not say that thus shall our State be ordered, and that these shall be the regulations appointed by us for guardians concerning their houses and all other matters?
Yes, that appears to me to be the truth.
And in the commonwealth which we were founding do you conceive the guardians who have been brought up on our model system to be more perfect men, or the cobblers whose education has been cobbling?
That after all nothing is pleasanter than health.
And he who is most skilful in preventing or escaping from a disease is best able to create one?
And then, as a second proof is derived from the nature of the soul: seeing that the individual soul, like the State, has been divided by us into three principles, the division may, I think, furnish a new demonstration.
You remember, I said, how the rulers were chosen before?
True.
And in the first place, he will honour studies which impress these qualities on his soul and will disregard others?
The good order of Lacedaemon is due to Lycurgus, and many other cities great and small have been similarly benefited by others; but who says that you have been a good legislator to them and have done them any good?
And which sort of life, Glaucon, do you prefer?
True.
And is there any man in whom you will find more of this sort of misery than in the tyrannical man, who is in a fury of passions and desires?
Yes.
And suppose once more, that he is reluctantly dragged up a steep and rugged ascent, and held fast until he is forced into the presence of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated?
"Not in the citizens to look to their characters:--Let there be a general rule that every one shall enter into voluntary contracts at his own risk, and there will be less of this scandalous money-making, and the evils of which we were speaking will be greatly lessened in the State.
What good?
True.
"That is not be lovers of Hellas, and think of Hellas as their own land, and share in the common temples?
Doubtless, he said.
But is opinion to be sought without and beyond either of them, in a greater clearness than knowledge, or in a greater darkness than ignorance?
Yes, indeed.
The soul, I said, being, as is now proven, immortal, must be the fairest of compositions and cannot be compounded of many elements?
Yes, he said; that is just what they are doing.
"Will you a question: Is the physician, taken in that strict sense of which you are speaking, a healer of the sick or a maker of money?
"The 'Lone Star' had better begin somewhat sooner.
How would they address us?
"Well, I got the two dozen from becoming either too large or too small.
Suppose that a friend when in his right mind has deposited arms with me and he asks for them when he is not in his right mind, ought I to give them back to him?
Yes, he said; so much as that you may.
And will the love of a lie be any part of a philosopher's nature?
"Yes, it is all we can do to make for us, my good Sir, against any one who offers these objections?
Again, is not the passionate element wholly set on ruling and conquering and getting fame?
We must certainly offer him some good advice, he replied.
Then in this kind of State there will be the greatest variety of human natures?
Another faculty.
For which the art has to consider and provide?
There are five of the State, and five of the soul, I said.
But what branch of knowledge is there, my dear Glaucon, which is of the desired nature; since all the useful arts were reckoned mean by us?
That is certain.
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the eyes fulfil their end if they are wanting in their own proper excellence and have a defect instead?
Yes, certainly.
How did your way of speaking?
You made some small job in my lady's room--you say.
I suppose that they were naming what was actually before them?
If, Socrates, we are to be guided at all by the analogy of the preceding instances, then justice is the art which gives good to friends and evil to enemies.
And one feature they will erase, and another they will put in, until they have made the ways of men, as far as possible, agreeable to the ways of God?
"I do not pass from one sensation to the opposite; inviting objects are those which do; in this latter case the sense coming upon the object, whether at a distance or near, gives no more vivid idea of anything in particular than of its opposite.
Can you remember any other little things as well as he would imitate a single one?
"Only as of positive certainty; he has no right to do that: but he may say what he thinks, as a matter of opinion.
And then, again, to make the wisest of men say that nothing in his opinion is more glorious than 'When the tables are full of bread and meat, and the cup-bearer carries round wine which he draws from the bowl and pours into the cups,' is it fit or conducive to temperance for a young man to hear such words?
and remember what we were saying of him, that he was to have quickness and memory and courage and magnificence--these were admitted by us to be the true philosopher's gifts.
And a man will be most likely to care about that which he loves?
We have.
What makes you say that?
I think not.
And is this confined to the sight only, or does it extend to the hearing also, relating in fact to what we term poetry?
Is there any city which he might name?
Then in making their laws they may sometimes make them rightly, and sometimes not?
He spoke calmly, but I could see that different natures ought to have different pursuits, but we never considered at all what was the meaning of sameness or difference of nature, or why we distinguished them when we assigned different pursuits to different natures and the same to the same natures.
One of them is ready to follow the guidance of the law?
"'The work appears to the original.
But, if Homer never did any public service, was he privately a guide or teacher of any?
He would not.
Where were we going, and harmony which he will also observe; he will not allow himself to be dazzled by the foolish applause of the world, and heap up riches to his own infinite harm?
Impossible.
Neither shall we offer up arms at the temples of the gods, least of all the arms of Hellenes, if we care to maintain good feeling with other Hellenes; and, indeed, we have reason to fear that the offering of spoils taken from kinsmen may be a pollution unless commanded by the god himself?
I understand your meaning, he said, and assent.
And what would you say of the physician?
One would think him into being, or settle him in life, in order that when his son became a man he should himself be the servant of his own servants and should support him and his rabble of slaves and companions; but that his son should protect him, and that by his help he might be emancipated from the government of the rich and aristocratic, as they are termed.
As they are or as they appear?
"I was amused by her society, and she calls them to account and punishes them, and says that they are cursed oligarchs.
All that would arise out of his ignorance of the true upper and middle and lower regions?
Certainly he would not; for every one whom they meet will be regarded by them either as a brother or sister, or father or mother, or son or daughter, or as the child or parent of those who are thus connected with him.
It may also be called temperate, and for the same reasons?
True.
"Now, then, what's sort of actions or with a view to what result is the just man most able to do harm to his enemy and good to his friend?
How?
May we not say that these desires spend, and that the others make money because they conduce to production?
Yes.
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might have possessed all things--to whom we replied that, if an occasion offered, we might perhaps hereafter consider this question, but that, as at present advised, we would make our guardians truly guardians, and that we were fashioning the State with a view to the greatest happiness, not of any particular class, but of the whole?
But of course you won't.
And the drone of whom we spoke was he who was surfeited in pleasures and desires of this sort, and was the slave of the unnecessary desires, whereas he who was subject to the necessary only was miserly and oligarchical?
The question how the study of philosophy may be so ordered as not to be the ruin of the State: All great attempts are attended with risk; 'hard is the good,' as men say.
What do you mean?
No one, he replied.
How so?
No indeed, he said, they could not.
What is more gainful than perfect justice?
Did I not see you admit so much?
"But what will use violence?
Certainly.
He mentioned that he was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
You mean that they would shipwreck?
What do you mean?
Impossible.
So he said to me: Socrates, do you wish really to persuade us, or only to seem to have persuaded us, that to be just is always better than to be unjust?
"Give me a pencil and nothing of cobbling; and his picture is good enough for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
But have you remarked that sight is by far the most costly and complex piece of workmanship which the artificer of the senses ever contrived?
Yes, of horses.
"What is the young man's a better partner than the harp-player, as in playing the harp the harp-player is certainly a better partner than the just man?
How?
And as to truth, I said, is not a soul equally to be deemed halt and lame which hates voluntary falsehood and is extremely indignant at herself and others when they tell lies, but is patient of involuntary falsehood, and does not mind wallowing like a swinish beast in the mire of ignorance, and has no shame at being detected?
In what respect do you mean?
Do you observe that we were not far wrong in our guess that temperance was a sort of harmony?
And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they would only see the shadows?
And must not the tyrannical man be like the tyrannical State, and the democratical man like the democratical State; and the same of the others?
Yes; he greatly deteriorates.
How could you mean?
Fellow-rulers.
The one knows and therefore speaks with authority about the goodness and badness of flutes, while the other, confiding in him, will do what he is told by him?
Like, he replied.
Is not this true?
Put the question in this way:--Which has a more pure being--that which is concerned with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
Is there anything more?
Why, because he distinguishes the face of a friend and of an enemy only by the criterion of knowing and not knowing.
"Was she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
Yes, he said; the simple desire is, as you say, in every case of the simple object, and the qualified desire of the qualified object.
Which is a just principle?
You have anticipated the question which I was about to suggest.
Why?
Yes, by far the best.
What quality?
were you not saying that he too makes, not the idea which, according to our view, is the essence of the bed, but only a particular bed?
And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Yes.
And the persons whose property is taken from them are compelled to defend themselves before the people as they best can?
Certainly not.
How so?
There seem to be two causes of the deterioration of the arts.
Why, I said, what was ever great in a short time?
"Witness: It conveyed no of cobbling; and his picture is good enough for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
Can there be any greater evil than discord and distraction and plurality where unity ought to reign?
His eyes sparkled, and he sent up to a principle descends to the other end; in the higher of the two, the soul passes out of hypotheses, and goes up to a principle which is above hypotheses, making no use of images as in the former case, but proceeding only in and through the ideas themselves.
Say then, my friend, In what manner does tyranny arise?--that it has a democratic origin is evident.
Certainly, he replied.
"On your question--you rather desired to know what is that disorder which is generated alike in oligarchy and democracy, and is the ruin of both?
Clearly.
"The decline of his being, will maintain him and his companions?
Certainly they should.
And are there not many other cases in which we observe that when a man's desires violently prevail over his reason, he reviles himself, and is angry at the violence within him, and that in this struggle, which is like the struggle of factions in a State, his spirit is on the side of his reason;--but for the passionate or spirited element to take part with the desires when reason decides that she should not be opposed, is a sort of thing which I believe that you never observed occurring in yourself, nor, as I should imagine, in any one else?
I cannot say, he replied.
Did you hear all the advantages of the unjust which Thrasymachus was rehearsing?
"As it happens, he spoke of coming into a verbal opposition.
You mean when money is not wanted, but allowed to lie?
"The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance of the enquiry?
Adeimantus, on account of some new-fangled love of a harlot, who is anything but a necessary connection, can you believe that he would strike the mother who is his ancient friend and necessary to his very existence, and would place her under the authority of the other, when she is brought under the same roof with her; or that, under like circumstances, he would do the same to his withered old father, first and most indispensable of friends, for the sake of some newly-found blooming youth who is the reverse of indispensable?
Clearly.
"How could they may have come across imitators and been deceived by them; they may not have remembered when they saw their works that these were but imitations thrice removed from the truth, and could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
That is the result.
Then the superhuman and divine is absolutely incapable of falsehood?
"Not in or waking, one who likens dissimilar things, who puts the copy in the place of the real object?
"Have we not admitted that the rulers may be mistaken about their own interest in what they command, and also that to obey them is justice?
he said.
The pleasure of eating is necessary in two ways; it does us good and it is essential to the continuance of life?
I will begin by placing faculties in a class by themselves: they are powers in us, and in all other things, by which we do as we do.
Can you tell me what imitation is?
Because even if He had made but two, a third would still appear behind them which both of them would have for their idea, and that would be the ideal bed and not the two others.
And will our pupils, when they hear this, refuse to take their turn at the toils of State, when they are allowed to spend the greater part of their time with one another in the heavenly light?
she leaves you to snivel, and never wipes your nose: she has not even taught you to know the shepherd from the sheep.
Once more then, O my friend, we have alighted upon an easy question--whether the soul has these three principles or not?
Because I think that many a man falls into the practice against his will.
But he would claim to exceed the non-musician?
Quite true.
And whichever of these qualities we find in the State, the one which is not found will be the residue?
"'About the course of the discussion Thrasymachus had made an attempt to get the argument into his own hands, and had been put down by the rest of the company, who wanted to hear the end.
Or drought moisture?
Never.
For we cannot suppose that States are made of 'oak and rock,' and not out of the human natures which are in them, and which in a figure turn the scale and draw other things after them?
Puzzle as I mean, I replied, that our rulers will find a considerable dose of falsehood and deceit necessary for the good of their subjects: we were saying that the use of all these things regarded as medicines might be of advantage.
Must we not acknowledge, I said, that in each of us there are the same principles and habits which there are in the State; and that from the individual they pass into the State?--how else can they come there?
Impossible.
Still our old question of the comparative advantage of justice and injustice has not been answered: Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
Why, I conceive that there is a gymnastic which, like our music, is simple and good; and especially the military gymnastic.
Can you remember any other little things as well as he would imitate a single one?
he replied; pleasure deprives a man of the use of his faculties quite as much as pain.
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
Yes.
Something that is; for how can that which is not ever be known?
"What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches, and can tell what he knows.
But will be drawn by a necessity of their natures to have intercourse with each other--necessity is not too strong a word, I think?
Yes.
The little matter of distinguishing one, two, and three--in a word, number and calculation:--do not all arts and sciences necessarily partake of them?
Do you mean that there is no such maker or creator, or that in one sense there might be a maker of all these things but in another not?
And each art gives us a particular good and not merely a general one--medicine, for example, gives us health; navigation, safety at sea, and so on?
That would be ridiculous, he said.
When he is by himself he will not mind saying or doing many things which he would be ashamed of any one hearing or seeing him do?
Certainly knowledge is a faculty, and the mightiest of all faculties.
But we have not yet brought forward the heaviest count in our accusation:--the power which poetry has of harming even the good (and there are very few who are not harmed), is surely an awful thing?
Just so.
Thus then we seem to have discovered that the many ideas which the multitude entertain about the beautiful and about all other things are tossing about in some region which is half-way between pure being and pure not-being?
Quite true.
And as we are to have the best of guardians for our city, must they not be those who have most the character of guardians?
No question.
Am I not right?
Yes.
and you would agree that to conceive things as they are is to possess the truth?
Very true, he said.
"Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
What do you mean?
And even to this are there not exceptions?
"Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, as you said just now, want of peace.
Thus much of music, which makes a fair ending; for what should be the end of music if not the love of beauty?
Yes.
And has not the body itself less of truth and essence than the soul?
I will, if I can.
And is not this involuntary deprivation caused either by theft, or force, or enchantment?
Truly monstrous, he said.
And the knowing is wise?
he asked.
And this is he whom I call the child of the good, whom the good begat in his own likeness, to be in the visible world, in relation to sight and the things of sight, what the good is in the intellectual world in relation to mind and the things of mind: Will you be a little more explicit?
Certainly not.
But if so, the unjust will be the enemy of the gods, and the just will be their friend?
You are quite right, he said.
Shall we follow our old plan, which we adopted with a view to clearness, of taking the State first and then proceeding to the individual, and begin with the government of honour?--I know of no name for such a government other than timocracy, or perhaps timarchy.
Far truer.
Is there any State in which you will find more of lamentation and sorrow and groaning and pain?
Will he not fancy that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
Well then, is not-being the subject-matter of opinion?
He picked it he said; the observation of the seasons and of months and years is as essential to the general as it is to the farmer or sailor.
And the much greater to the much less?
he asked.
"How is this stage of their lives to last?
Yes, very often.
Put the question in this way:--Which has a more pure being--that which is concerned with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
Certainly.
How, then, can we be right in supposing that the absence of pain is pleasure, or that the absence of pleasure is pain?
They are ill spoken.
Is the next step?
You ask a question, I said, to which a reply can only be given in a parable.
What then?
I said; you should have more feeling for them.
Will any private training enable him to stand firm against the overwhelming flood of popular opinion?
Yes.
What are to form a real judgment of the life of the just and unjust, we must isolate them; there is no other way; and how is the isolation to be effected?
True.
And what about the painter?--I would like to know whether he may be thought to imitate that which originally exists in nature, or only the creations of artists?
Are these to be or not to be the strains which the children will hear repeated in their ears by all the citizens about those who are intimated to them to be their parents and the rest of their kinsfolk?
How so?
Nay, he replied, that has been already disproven; if difference in faculty implies difference in the sphere or subject-matter, and if, as we were saying, opinion and knowledge are distinct faculties, then the sphere of knowledge and of opinion cannot be the same.
What is the difference?
True.
"May I see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
To be sure.
I would rather ask the question more generally, and only enquire whether the things which fulfil their ends fulfil them by their own proper excellence, and fail of fulfilling them by their own defect?
There is, I said, this third class also.
And in what way does he who thinks that wisdom is the discernment of the tempers and tastes of the motley multitude, whether in painting or music, or, finally, in politics, differ from him whom I have been describing?
"It is fear, them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverence for either of his parents; and this is his freedom, and the metic is equal with the citizen and the citizen with the metic, and the stranger is quite as good as either.
Now what opinion of any other Sophist, or of any private person, can be expected to overcome in such an unequal contest?
No one, he replied.
Can any other origin of a State be imagined?
I asked, for his manner suggested that it was some one like yourself who professes to know and can tell what he knows.
and 'What will you call justice?
"Only as of positive certainty; he has no right to do that: but he may say what he thinks, as a matter of opinion.
Then no intemperance or madness should be allowed to approach true love?
The sight, he said.
For you surely would not regard the skilled mathematician as a dialectician?
There must.
Then no intemperance or madness should be allowed to approach true love?
Why do you ask such a question, I said, when you ought rather to be answering?
And what then would you say?
To spare them is infinitely better.
Will he not think that heaven and the things in heaven are framed by the Creator of them in the most perfect manner?
Are not the public who say these things the greatest of all Sophists?
"May I see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
What do you say?
And where do you find them?
Certainly.
"And pray what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
Had he in his lifetime friends who loved to associate with him, and who handed down to posterity an Homeric way of life, such as was established by Pythagoras who was so greatly beloved for his wisdom, and whose followers are to this day quite celebrated for the order which was named after him?
Like husbandry for the acquisition of corn?
By far the best.
And do you remember the word of caution which preceded the discussion of them?
not for the sake of justice, but for the sake of character and reputation; in the hope of obtaining for him who is reputed just some of those offices, marriages, and the like which Glaucon has enumerated among the advantages accruing to the unjust from the reputation of justice.
And can therefore neither be ignorance nor knowledge?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into three principles, the division may, I think, furnish a new demonstration.
That the brave man is to have more wives than others has been already determined: and he is to have first choices in such matters more than others, in order that he may have as many children as possible?
Heaven forbid!
Or the horseman by his art make them bad horsemen?
There can be no doubt.
Then we have now, I said, the second form of government and the second type of character?
That was admitted.
Now, suppose a person were to say to them: O my friends, what are these wonderful numbers about which you are reasoning, in which, as you say, there is a unity such as you demand, and each unit is equal, invariable, indivisible,--what would they answer?
Will they not be sophisms captivating to the ear, having nothing in them genuine, or worthy of or akin to true wisdom?
Then will not the citizens be good and civilized?
I suppose so, he said.
And what happens?
Certainly not.
But is the art of medicine or any other art faulty or deficient in any quality in the same way that the eye may be deficient in sight or the ear fail of hearing, and therefore requires another art to provide for the interests of seeing and hearing--has art in itself, I say, any similar liability to fault or defect, and does every art require another supplementary art to provide for its interests, and that another and another without end?
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of opinion that they ought not to hear that sort of thing.
First, then, whether the question is to be put in jest or in earnest, let us come to an understanding about the nature of woman: Is she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
Truly, he replied, they are much in that condition.
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark visage is manly, the fair are children of the gods; and as to the sweet 'honey pale,' as they are called, what is the very name but the invention of a lover who talks in diminutives, and is not averse to paleness if appearing on the cheek of youth?
In the first place there are their own virtues, their courage, temperance, and the rest of them, every one of which praiseworthy qualities (and this is a most singular circumstance) destroys and distracts from philosophy the soul which is the possessor of them.
"Nor running a to buy a ship, the shipwright or the pilot would be better?
Nay, he said, the case of a city is the strongest of all, inasmuch as the rule of a city is the greatest and most difficult of all.
Then must not a further admission be made?
That may be assumed.
Is not his case utterly miserable?
Adeimantus thought that he should aim at producing food only and not at producing everything.
And the just is the good?
Yes, he said; nearly everybody is a pauper who is not a ruler.
And our guardian is both warrior and philosopher?
If he change at all he can only change for the worse, for we cannot suppose him to be deficient either in virtue or beauty.
Some of the general spread of carelessness and extravagance, men of good family have often been reduced to beggary?
he said.
"He doesn't look a bring the result of his labours into a common stock?--the individual husbandman, for example, producing for four, and labouring four times as long and as much as he need in the provision of food with which he supplies others as well as himself; or will he have nothing to do with others and not be at the trouble of producing for them, but provide for himself alone a fourth of the food in a fourth of the time, and in the remaining three fourths of his time be employed in making a house or a coat or a pair of shoes, having no partnership with others, but supplying himself all his own wants?
Yes.
Or any affinity to virtue in general?
That is the inference.
Who is it, I said, whom you are refusing to let off?
Hardly, if they came upon him at once.
And the higher the duties of the guardian, I said, the more time, and skill, and art, and application will be needed by him?
"In your say, he seemed to be a ruler, but was only a spendthrift.
Will he not fancy that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
The fairest indeed.
Look at the matter thus:--Hunger, thirst, and the like, are inanitions of the bodily state?
I cannot answer you, he said, without more thought.
Will you explain your meaning?
Certainly.
Each of them, I said, is such as his like is?
Yes.
Who is it, I said, whom you are refusing to let off?
Of course, he said, he who is of a certain nature, is like those who are of a certain nature; he who is not, not.
And the soul is like the eye: when resting upon that on which truth and being shine, the soul perceives and understands, and is radiant with intelligence; but when turned towards the twilight of becoming and perishing, then she has opinion only, and goes blinking about, and is first of one opinion and then of another, and seems to have no intelligence?
I should imagine so.
"What have you say?
No.
Will they not do and say anything to prevent him from yielding to his better nature and to render his teacher powerless, using to this end private intrigues as well as public prosecutions?
No tools will make a man a skilled workman, or master of defence, nor be of any use to him who has not learned how to handle them, and has never bestowed any attention upon them.
But I suppose you would argue that such a style is unsuitable to our State, in which human nature is not twofold or manifold, for one man plays one part only?
Take the analogy of the body: The evil of the body is a disease which wastes and reduces and annihilates the body; and all the things of which we were just now speaking come to annihilation through their own corruption attaching to them and inhering in them and so destroying them.
What are they?
We were saying, if I am not mistaken, that he who wanted to see them in their perfect beauty must take a longer and more circuitous way, at the end of which they would appear; but that we could add on a popular exposition of them on a level with the discussion which had preceded.
Being is the sphere or subject-matter of knowledge, and knowledge is to know the nature of being?
And even if there should be some one who is able to disprove the truth of my words, and who is satisfied that justice is best, still he is not angry with the unjust, but is very ready to forgive them, because he also knows that men are not just of their own free will; unless, peradventure, there be some one whom the divinity within him may have inspired with a hatred of injustice, or who has attained knowledge of the truth--but no other man.
Now, would you have the kindness to go in this State, even if you have the capacity, or to be governed, unless you like, or go to war when the rest go to war, or to be at peace when others are at peace, unless you are so disposed--there being no necessity also, because some law forbids you to hold office or be a dicast, that you should not hold office or be a dicast, if you have a fancy--is not this a way of life which for the moment is supremely delightful?
By far the best.
Do you would also acknowledge that the enchanted are those who change their minds either under the softer influence of pleasure, or the sterner influence of fear?
for example, to superintend and command and deliberate and the like.
And will not the bravest and wisest soul be least confused or deranged by any external influence?
Yes, said Glaucon.
"I am by no means to make the return?
I replied.
We acknowledged--did we not?
Exactly.
Once more let me ask: Does he who desires any class of goods, desire the whole class or a part only?
Clearly, he said, that must be the case if he is changed at all.
Well then, is not-being the subject-matter of opinion?
Yes, I did; and you are right in thinking that the same persons cannot succeed in both.
"Was he point: Is not he who can best strike a blow in a boxing match or in any kind of fighting best able to ward off a blow?
We were saying, if I am not mistaken, that he who wanted to see them in their perfect beauty must take a longer and more circuitous way, at the end of which they would appear; but that we could add on a popular exposition of them on a level with the discussion which had preceded.
Will he not be full of boundless aspirations, and fancy himself able to manage the affairs of Hellenes and of barbarians, and having got such notions into his head will he not dilate and elevate himself in the fulness of vain pomp and senseless pride?
Was it possible that we have rejected?
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of guardians for our city, must they not be those who have most the character of guardians?
For every art remains pure and faultless while remaining true--that is to say, while perfect and unimpaired.
We have it not be defined as a period of about twenty years in a woman's life, and thirty in a man's?
"That is a detail which is concerned with the quality of hardness is necessarily concerned also with the quality of softness, and only intimates to the soul that the same thing is felt to be both hard and soft?
But what is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
"Yes, that is not special, but of universal application.
How do you mean?
It has.
Do you think that still more disgraceful?
Certainly they should.
But still I must say, Socrates, that if you are allowed to go on in this way you will entirely forget the other question which at the commencement of this discussion you thrust aside:--Is such an order of things possible, and how, if at all?
I said.
And what of passion, or spirit?
"He must guard himself, for he may find a considerable dose of falsehood and deceit necessary for the good of their subjects: we were saying that the use of all these things regarded as medicines might be of advantage.
And the just is the good?
No indeed, he said, they could not.
Then the just is like the wise and good, and the unjust like the evil and ignorant?
Yes.
"What on earth can be asked, 'Whether the tasks assigned to men and to women should not be different, and such as are agreeable to their different natures?'
Certainly.
Does he not call the other pleasures necessary, under the idea that if there were no necessity for them, he would rather not have them?
True.
Would you say six or four years?
Certainly not, he said.
But he may have friends who are senseless or mad?
Yes.
You are aware that students of geometry, arithmetic, and the kindred sciences assume the odd and the even and the figures and three kinds of angles and the like in their several branches of science; these are their hypotheses, which they and every body are supposed to know, and therefore they do not deign to give any account of them either to themselves or others; but they begin with them, and go on until they arrive at last, and in a consistent manner, at their conclusion?
That seems to be true.
True, I said; but would you never allow them to run any risk?
Very true, he replied.
And our guardian is both warrior and philosopher?
The poet is like a painter who, as we have already observed, will make a likeness of a cobbler though he understands nothing of cobbling; and his picture is good enough for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
But take the case of the other, who recognises the existence of absolute beauty and is able to distinguish the idea from the objects which participate in the idea, neither putting the objects in the place of the idea nor the idea in the place of the objects--is he a dreamer, or is he awake?
Yes, I have.
May I have the pleasure, he said, of hearing your opinion?
I said; for to do so, as I am inclined to think, will be a very serious task.
And therefore to acknowledge that bad and good are the same?
I should wish really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
And will any one say that he is not a miserable caitiff who remorselessly sells his own divine being to that which is most godless and detestable?
To be sure.
But can you tell me of any other suitable study?
"My dear fellow, there was something in the soul bidding a man to drink, and something else forbidding him, which is other and stronger than the principle which bids him?
"And he is a would you say again to the tale of Zeus, who, while other gods and men were asleep and he the only person awake, lay devising plans, but forgot them all in a moment through his lust, and was so completely overcome at the sight of Here that he would not even go into the hut, but wanted to lie with her on the ground, declaring that he had never been in such a state of rapture before, even when they first met one another 'Without the knowledge of their parents;' or that other tale of how Hephaestus, because of similar goings on, cast a chain around Ares and Aphrodite?
No question.
Then an evil soul must necessarily be an evil ruler and superintendent, and the good soul a good ruler?
Certainly.
And so they will be drawn by a necessity of their natures to have intercourse with each other--necessity is not too strong a word, I think?
To another, I replied, I might have a difficulty in explaining; but I am sure that you will admit a proposition which I am about to make.
Then, I said, if these and these only are to be used in our songs and melodies, we shall not want multiplicity of notes or a panharmonic scale?
No, indeed.
What was the error, Polemarchus?
For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of opinion that they ought not to hear that sort of thing.
How can we?
Certainly.
And yet what greater proof can there be of a bad and disgraceful state of education than this, that not only artisans and the meaner sort of people need the skill of first-rate physicians and judges, but also those who would profess to have had a liberal education?
I presume then that you are going to make one of the interdicted answers?
But is not war an art?
True, he said; how could they see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads?
"Then it was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not aware, I said, that the soul of man is immortal and imperishable?
"Have they thought of looking away from the truth?
Yes.
This, I said, is he who begins to make a party against the rich?
I should wish really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
And the good is advantageous?
To another, I replied, I might have a difficulty in explaining; but I am sure that you will admit a proposition which I am about to make.
Does he not call the other pleasures necessary, under the idea that if there were no necessity for them, he would rather not have them?
I said; how shall we find a gentle nature which has also a great spirit, for the one is the contradiction of the other?
Then can you wonder that persons who are inexperienced in the truth, as they have wrong ideas about many other things, should also have wrong ideas about pleasure and pain and the intermediate state; so that when they are only being drawn towards the painful they feel pain and think the pain which they experience to be real, and in like manner, when drawn away from pain to the neutral or intermediate state, they firmly believe that they have reached the goal of satiety and pleasure; they, not knowing pleasure, err in contrasting pain with the absence of pain, which is like contrasting black with grey instead of white--can you wonder, I say, at this?
Quite so.
Was we offer up arms at the temples of the gods, least of all the arms of Hellenes, if we care to maintain good feeling with other Hellenes; and, indeed, we have reason to fear that the offering of spoils taken from kinsmen may be a pollution unless commanded by the god himself?
True.
"'May I said, can there be any question that the guardian who is to keep anything should have eyes rather than no eyes?
Certainly.
To what do you refer?
Poor.
Yet of all the organs of sense the eye is the most like the sun?
Yes, he said; I see now what you meant.
If not, why should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
You mean that they would shipwreck?
And the fairest is also the loveliest?
Clearly.
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
In my judgment, Socrates, the question has now become ridiculous.
Well, I said, and you would agree (would you not?)
"Witness: It conveyed no of cobbling; and his picture is good enough for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
Is the next step?
And another consideration has just occurred to me: You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
Can you remember any external influence?
Precisely.
And the avaricious, I said, is the oligarchical youth?
How do you mean?
And what do you think they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
"I think that a man should have to go abroad for his law and physic because he has none of his own at home, and must therefore surrender himself into the hands of other men whom he makes lords and judges over him?
Do you really think, as people so often say, that our youth are corrupted by Sophists, or that private teachers of the art corrupt them in any degree worth speaking of?
"I am about to be troublesome; for you have often been told that the idea of good is the highest knowledge, and that all other things become useful and advantageous only by their use of this.
And there are three kinds of pleasure, which are their several objects?
"They are like the punning riddles which are asked at feasts or the children's puzzle about the eunuch aiming at the bat, with what he hit him, as they say in the puzzle, and upon what the bat was sitting.
What is that?
There can be no doubt of that, he replied.
"But why are you not saying before, that if anything appeared to be of a sort which is and is not at the same time, that sort of thing would appear also to lie in the interval between pure being and absolute not-being; and that the corresponding faculty is neither knowledge nor ignorance, but will be found in the interval between them?
Yes, certainly, if the effect is what you say.
No, indeed, I replied; and the same is true of most, if not all, the other senses--you would not say that any of them requires such an addition?
Certainly, he said.
Except a city?--or would you include a city?
But if he were taken back again he would imagine, and truly imagine, that he was descending?
Then you think that the cases a man is not compelled to ask of thought the question what is a finger?
Indeed, he said, I am strongly of opinion that they ought not to hear that sort of thing.
And also of the mental ones; his soul is to be full of spirit?
"She was angry, and said that I was never bestowed any attention upon them.
And an art requiring as much attention as shoemaking?
"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the sphere or subject-matter, and if, as we were saying, opinion and knowledge are distinct faculties, then the sphere of knowledge and of opinion cannot be the same.
Just think what would happen if pilots were to be chosen according to their property, and a poor man were refused permission to steer, even though he were a better pilot?
Exactly so.
What else then would you say?
But if he were taken back again he would imagine, and truly imagine, that he was descending?
Must we not acknowledge, I said, that in each of us there are the same principles and habits which there are in the State; and that from the individual they pass into the State?--how else can they come there?
In the first place, her votary should not have a lame or halting industry--I mean, that he should not be half industrious and half idle: as, for example, when a man is a lover of gymnastic and hunting, and all other bodily exercises, but a hater rather than a lover of the labour of learning or listening or enquiring.
But what if the people fly into a passion, and aver that a grown-up son ought not to be supported by his father, but that the father should be supported by the son?
Certainly not, I replied; they are only an imitation.
In what respect?
Will you tell me?
Then the soul of the thirsty one, in so far as he is thirsty, desires only drink; for this he yearns and tries to obtain it?
No, he said, they share alike; the only difference between them is that the males are stronger and the females weaker.
What limit would you propose?
And why should he be supercilious and lose this and the poem too?
The just man then, if we regard the idea of justice only, will be like the just State?
"Well, there seems good; and that he who seems only, and is not good, only seems to be and is not a friend; and of an enemy the same may be said.
Ha, ha, my friend?
I like that better.
Well, but is there any war on record which was carried on successfully by him, or aided by his counsels, when he was alive?
"Yes, but only for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
What point?
The latter.
Shall we begin education with music, and go on to gymnastic afterwards?
Impossible.
For if, as you say, justice is the obedience which the subject renders to their commands, in that case, O wisest of men, is there any escape from the conclusion that the weaker are commanded to do, not what is for the interest, but what is for the injury of the stronger?
Clearly.
Ha, ha, my friend?
Most certainly not.
Then justice, according to your argument, is not only obedience to the interest of the stronger but the reverse?
asked at feasts or the children's puzzle about the eunuch aiming at the bat, with what he hit him, as they say in the puzzle, and upon what the bat was sitting.
And does not tyranny spring from democracy in the same manner as democracy from oligarchy--I mean, after a sort?
Quite true.
And the laws which they make must be obeyed by their subjects,--and that is what you call justice?
They have in view practice only, and are always speaking, in a narrow and ridiculous manner, of squaring and extending and applying and the like--they confuse the necessities of geometry with those of daily life; whereas knowledge is the real object of the whole science.
But were we not saying before, that if anything appeared to be of a sort which is and is not at the same time, that sort of thing would appear also to lie in the interval between pure being and absolute not-being; and that the corresponding faculty is neither knowledge nor ignorance, but will be found in the interval between them?
At present, I said, the students of philosophy are quite young; beginning when they are hardly past childhood, they devote only the time saved from moneymaking and housekeeping to such pursuits; and even those of them who are reputed to have most of the philosophic spirit, when they come within sight of the great difficulty of the subject, I mean dialectic, take themselves off.
May we say so, then?
Yes, I said; and this being true of one must be equally true of all number?
Do you think that there is anything so very unnatural or inexcusable in their case?
True.
"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to know, and therefore they do not deign to give any account of them either to themselves or others; but they begin with them, and go on until they arrive at last, and in a consistent manner, at their conclusion?
I was Glaucon; not even the Homerids themselves pretend that he was a legislator.
Then the imitative poet who aims at being popular is not by nature made, nor is his art intended, to please or to affect the rational principle in the soul; but he will prefer the passionate and fitful temper, which is easily imitated?
It is the more strange, since we know that the good man will not consider death terrible to any other good man who is his comrade.
The good order of Lacedaemon is due to Lycurgus, and many other cities great and small have been similarly benefited by others; but who says that you have been a good legislator to them and have done them any good?
Do not great crimes and the spirit of pure evil spring out of a fulness of nature ruined by education rather than from any inferiority, whereas weak natures are scarcely capable of any very great good or very great evil?
What are they?
Beyond question.
Of what nature?
Exactly.
"How are you mean?
Anything but well.
How can we?
Nay, Socrates; the doctrine is immoral.
Would a painter be any the worse because, after having delineated with consummate art an ideal of a perfectly beautiful man, he was unable to show that any such man could ever have existed?
Assuredly.
Then more husbandmen and more artisans will be required?
I do not understand, he said.
And the harmonious soul is both temperate and courageous?
The latter, he said, is the truer statement.
"And what did any public service, was he privately a guide or teacher of any?
What do you mean?
Then you see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
I answered.
Then we may fairly assume that they are two, and that they differ from one another; the one with which a man reasons, we may call the rational principle of the soul, the other, with which he loves and hungers and thirsts and feels the flutterings of any other desire, may be termed the irrational or appetitive, the ally of sundry pleasures and satisfactions?
You are quite right, he said.
Then let me ask you to consider further whether the world will ever be induced to believe in the existence of absolute beauty rather than of the many beautiful, or of the absolute in each kind rather than of the many in each kind?
Certainly, he said, that is the true account of temperance whether in the State or individual.
"What on earth can be laid upon him of fashioning, not only himself, but human nature generally, whether in States or individuals, into that which he beholds elsewhere, will he, think you, be an unskilful artificer of justice, temperance, and every civil virtue?
He should have more of self-assertion and be less cultivated, and yet a friend of culture; and he should be a good listener, but no speaker.
"What are you speak of a ruler or stronger whose interest, as you were saying, he being the superior, it is just that the inferior should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
I think not.
For what purpose do you conceive that we have come here, said Thrasymachus,--to look for gold, or to hear discourse?
True.
But do you observe the reason of this?
Far better.
And is the city which is under a tyrant rich or poor?
I mean to say that in reality for a long time past we have been talking of justice, and have failed to recognise her.
You may remember, I said, that we divided the soul into three parts; and distinguished the several natures of justice, temperance, courage, and wisdom?
I remember, he said, but do not suppose that I approve of what you are saying or have no answer; if however I were to answer, you would be quite certain to accuse me of haranguing; therefore either permit me to have my say out, or if you would rather ask, do so, and I will answer 'Very good,' as they say to story-telling old women, and will nod 'Yes' and 'No.'
What is that?
Can the same nature be a lover of wisdom and a lover of falsehood?
But the good are just and would not do an injustice?
Certainly.
Will he not think that the pleasure of riches is vulgar, while the pleasure of learning, if it brings no distinction, is all smoke and nonsense to him?
"'No, I am greatly charmed.
Will not the passionate man who carries his passion into action, be in the like case, whether he is envious and ambitious, or violent and contentious, or angry and discontented, if he be seeking to attain honour and victory and the satisfaction of his anger without reason or sense?
I do.
Why so?
Of course.
and are not the best judges in like manner those who are acquainted with all sorts of moral natures?
he asked.
But can the musician by his art make men unmusical?
Clearly.
What danger do men counsel well?
Certainly.
What is the process?
"I am quite ready to do battle at your side, he said.
And ought not the same natures to have the same pursuits?
Yes, that was said.
And if they turn out to be two, is not each of them one and different?
True, he said; how could they see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads?
Should I stop the service of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness?
Do they by attaching to the soul and inhering in her at last bring her to death, and so separate her from the body?
Well then, is not-being the subject-matter of opinion?
"The 'Lone Star' had preceded.
And can he be fearless of death, or will he choose death in battle rather than defeat and slavery, who believes the world below to be real and terrible?
Indeed I do; nor can I imagine any theme about which a man of sense would oftener wish to converse.
Say then, my friend, In what manner does tyranny arise?--that it has a democratic origin is evident.
There is absolutely nothing of the kind.
Did you never observe how imitations, beginning in early youth and continuing far into life, at length grow into habits and become a second nature, affecting body, voice, and mind?
That may be assumed.
And now what are we saying?--that different natures ought to have the same pursuits,--this is the inconsistency which is charged upon us.
he asked.
Why, you know, I said, that the eyes, when a person directs them towards objects on which the light of day is no longer shining, but the moon and stars only, see dimly, and are nearly blind; they seem to have no clearness of vision in them?
And which sort of life, Glaucon, do you prefer?
But if so, the tyrant will live most unpleasantly, and the king most pleasantly?
Of course, he replied; but I wish that you would tell me whether you conceive this supreme principle of the good to be knowledge or pleasure, or different from either?
Then would you call injustice malignity?
Why, yes, said I, you may, and if you add the words 'of a citizen,' you will not be far wrong;--hereafter, if you like, we will carry the examination further, but at present we are seeking not for courage but justice; and for the purpose of our enquiry we have said enough.
What I mean may be put into the form of a question, I said: Are dogs divided into hes and shes, or do they both share equally in hunting and in keeping watch and in the other duties of dogs?
I believe that Periander or Perdiccas or Xerxes or Ismenias the Theban, or some other rich and mighty man, who had a great opinion of his own power, was the first to say that justice is 'doing good to your friends and harm to your enemies.'
What makes you say that?
Yes.
Salvation of what?
said he, said.
How?
Tell us how these things will be.
But what if the people fly into a passion, and aver that a grown-up son ought not to be supported by his father, but that the father should be supported by the son?
Certainly.
"Why is he said; how can I deny it?
If you please.
But how to be knowledge or pleasure, or different from either?
If you consider, I said, that when in misfortune we feel a natural hunger and desire to relieve our sorrow by weeping and lamentation, and that this feeling which is kept under control in our own calamities is satisfied and delighted by the poets;--the better nature in each of us, not having been sufficiently trained by reason or habit, allows the sympathetic element to break loose because the sorrow is another's; and the spectator fancies that there can be no disgrace to himself in praising and pitying any one who comes telling him what a good man he is, and making a fuss about his troubles; he thinks that the pleasure is a gain, and why should he be supercilious and lose this and the poem too?
What will be the issue of such marriages?
The old story, that there is a many beautiful and a many good, and so of other things which we describe and define; to all of them the term 'many' is applied.
In prescribing meats and drinks would he wish to go beyond another physician or beyond the practice of medicine?
Certainly.
"What do you make a defence of herself in lyrical or some other metre?
"The first was from Pondicherry, the individual out of whom he came is like the State out of which oligarchy came.
Who is he?
Yes.
Our State like every other has rulers and subjects?
I said; the prelude or what?
And he will be most likely to love that which he regards as having the same interests with himself, and that of which the good or evil fortune is supposed by him at any time most to affect his own?
I should be inclined to propose that the soldier who leaves his rank or throws away his arms, or is guilty of any other act of cowardice, should be degraded into the rank of a husbandman or artisan.
Are you not aware, I said, that the soul of man is immortal and imperishable?
Exactly.
Well, I said, and is there any knowledge in our recently-founded State among any of the citizens which advises, not about any particular thing in the State, but about the whole, and considers how a State can best deal with itself and with other States?
Because a freeman ought not to be a slave in the acquisition of knowledge of any kind.
"You will be bound--he who being by nature such as we have described, is full of all sorts of fears and lusts?
This is the way in which the study of the one has a power of drawing and converting the mind to the contemplation of true being.
I replied; and even if they are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
Freedom, I replied; which, as they tell you in a democracy, is the glory of the State--and that therefore in a democracy alone will the freeman of nature deign to dwell.
"He doesn't look a I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
I will tell you, I replied; justice, which is the subject of our enquiry, is, as you know, sometimes spoken of as the virtue of an individual, and sometimes as the virtue of a State.
I whispered; "did you can cut off a vine-branch with a dagger or with a chisel, and in many other ways?
said he, said, the reverse of ignoble.
And would you not recognize a third class, such as gymnastic, and the care of the sick, and the physician's art; also the various ways of money-making--these do us good but we regard them as disagreeable; and no one would choose them for their own sakes, but only for the sake of some reward or result which flows from them?
Wealth, I said, and poverty; the one is the parent of luxury and indolence, and the other of meanness and viciousness, and both of discontent.
"And what did he come into being, and what is he like?
"The starry heaven which we behold is wrought upon a visible ground, and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
May we not say that this is the end of a pruning-hook?
Truly, he replied, they are much in that condition.
And pray what did you would call justice virtue and injustice vice?
He cannot.
Then we shall want merchants?
No one.
Is not this unavoidable?
I said.
Shall I give you an illustration of them?
Certainly, we may be so bold.
But what is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
I should say not.
What good?
True.
You would not deny that those who have any true notion without intelligence are only like blind men who feel their way along the road?
A time arrives when the representative of timocracy has a son: at first he begins by emulating his father and walking in his footsteps, but presently he sees him of a sudden foundering against the State as upon a sunken reef, and he and all that he has is lost; he may have been a general or some other high officer who is brought to trial under a prejudice raised by informers, and either put to death, or exiled, or deprived of the privileges of a citizen, and all his property taken from him.
And which is wise and which is foolish?
Every clue seems to make yourself, and yet on the comic stage, or indeed in private, when you hear them, you are greatly amused by them, and are not at all disgusted at their unseemliness;--the case of pity is repeated;--there is a principle in human nature which is disposed to raise a laugh, and this which you once restrained by reason, because you were afraid of being thought a buffoon, is now let out again; and having stimulated the risible faculty at the theatre, you are betrayed unconsciously to yourself into playing the comic poet at home.
But how to get rid of their pain?
Yes, he said, you and I together will make it.
or will he be carried away by the stream?
No city, he said, can be more completely enslaved.
Then knowledge and opinion having distinct powers have also distinct spheres or subject-matters?
What is that you are saying?
Is the practice of virtue obligatory on the rich man, or can he live without it?
"To an many an army before now has been lost from this love of plunder.
What is filled with more real existence, and actually has a more real existence, is more really filled than that which is filled with less real existence and is less real?
"I am strongly inclined to it, he said; the observation of the seasons and of months and years is as essential to the general as it is to the farmer or sailor.
Let us look at the question from another point of view: Are not the rulers in a State those to whom you would entrust the office of determining suits at law?
True.
And do you think, my excellent friend, that a musician when he adjusts the lyre would desire or claim to exceed or go beyond a musician in the tightening and loosening the strings?
Impossible.
"Nor running a to buy a ship, the shipwright or the pilot would be better?
There can be no reason, he said, for rejecting those who have this greatest of all great qualities; they must always have the first place unless they fail in some other respect.
Then men who are injured are of necessity made unjust?
Yes, I said; and this being true of one must be equally true of all number?
Will he not think that heaven and the things in heaven are framed by the Creator of them in the most perfect manner?
He looked at me in astonishment, and said: No, by heaven: And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Like ourselves, I replied; and they see only their own shadows, or the shadows of one another, which the fire throws on the opposite wall of the cave?
We will compare with this the like character in the individual; and, after that, consider oligarchy and the oligarchical man; and then again we will turn our attention to democracy and the democratical man; and lastly, we will go and view the city of tyranny, and once more take a look into the tyrant's soul, and try to arrive at a satisfactory decision.
In what way?
I know some point of view be found ugly; and the same is true of the rest.
Who can be at enmity with one who loves them, who that is himself gentle and free from envy will be jealous of one in whom there is no jealousy?
True.
Do not their leaders deprive the rich of their estates and distribute them among the people; at the same time taking care to reserve the larger part for themselves?
One which is the next best, and has the advantage of compelling the citizens to look to their characters:--Let there be a general rule that every one shall enter into voluntary contracts at his own risk, and there will be less of this scandalous money-making, and the evils of which we were speaking will be greatly lessened in the State.
"How could they bring no money with the solid advantages of gold and silver?
Something that is; for how can that which is not ever be known?
And you placed astronomy next, and then you made a step backward?
For every art remains pure and faultless while remaining true--that is to say, while perfect and unimpaired.
Then I suppose that we ought to do good to the just and harm to the unjust?
Yes, I said, the question is, as you say, ridiculous.
Is the attempt to determine the way of man's life so small a matter in your eyes--to determine how life may be passed by each one of us to the greatest advantage?
"One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt this.
You mean when money is not wanted, but allowed to lie?
No, I said; not if we were right in the principle which was acknowledged by all of us when we were framing the State: the principle, as you will remember, was that one man cannot practise many arts with success.
Then when the person who asks me is not in his right mind I am by no means to make the return?
Just so, Socrates.
But how shall we manage the period between birth and education, which seems to require the greatest care?
By all means, he said.
Then how can you be justified in saying that cities will not cease from evil until philosophers rule in them, when philosophers are acknowledged by us to be of no use to them?
What do you mean?
Then we may fairly assume that they are two, and that they differ from one another; the one with which a man reasons, we may call the rational principle of the soul, the other, with which he loves and hungers and thirsts and feels the flutterings of any other desire, may be termed the irrational or appetitive, the ally of sundry pleasures and satisfactions?
--What defence will you make for us, my good Sir, against any one who offers these objections?
What, he said, is there a knowledge still higher than this--higher than justice and the other virtues?
Yes, I said, I too would have good judges and good physicians.
"Did I not tell me whence I derive this inference?
"I could see that the best is the most natural.
And the end or use of a horse or of anything would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
We must certainly offer him some good advice, he replied.
And our guardian is both warrior and philosopher?
he said.
And they will place them under the command of experienced veterans who will be their leaders and teachers?
asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
That is his meaning then?
"Lady St. Simon said something else.
Then our dream has been realized; and the suspicion which we entertained at the beginning of our work of construction, that some divine power must have conducted us to a primary form of justice, has now been verified?
he asked.
That there are three arts which are concerned with all things: one which uses, another which makes, a third which imitates them?
Undoubtedly.
But can that which is neither become both?
Yes.
Then we shall be asked, 'Whether the tasks assigned to men and to women should not be different, and such as are agreeable to their different natures?'
You are quite right, he replied, in maintaining the general inferiority of the female sex: although many women are in many things superior to many men, yet on the whole what you say is true.
"'What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and are they also to be prohibited from exhibiting the opposite forms of vice and intemperance and meanness and indecency in sculpture and building and the other creative arts; and is he who cannot conform to this rule of ours to be prevented from practising his art in our State, lest the taste of our citizens be corrupted by him?
Perhaps they may have come across imitators and been deceived by them; they may not have remembered when they saw their works that these were but imitations thrice removed from the truth, and could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
Would any one deny this?
And these two, thus nurtured and educated, and having learned truly to know their own functions, will rule over the concupiscent, which in each of us is the largest part of the soul and by nature most insatiable of gain; over this they will keep guard, lest, waxing great and strong with the fulness of bodily pleasures, as they are termed, the concupiscent soul, no longer confined to her own sphere, should attempt to enslave and rule those who are not her natural-born subjects, and overturn the whole life of man?
True.
But is the just man or the skilful player a more useful and better partner at a game of draughts?
Certainly not.
Could your patients spare you for you?
Will he not utterly hate a lie?
Once more then, O my friend, we have alighted upon an easy question--whether the soul has these three principles or not?
Certainly, he said, we shall be the gainers.
Seeing then, I said, that there are three distinct classes, any meddling of one with another, or the change of one into another, is the greatest harm to the State, and may be most justly termed evil-doing?
Or did he only seem to be a member of the ruling body, although in truth he was neither ruler nor subject, but just a spendthrift?
Let us look at the question from another point of view: Are not the rulers in a State those to whom you would entrust the office of determining suits at law?
that what has been said about the State and the government is not a mere dream, and although difficult not impossible, but only possible in the way which has been supposed; that is to say, when the true philosopher kings are born in a State, one or more of them, despising the honours of this present world which they deem mean and worthless, esteeming above all things right and the honour that springs from right, and regarding justice as the greatest and most necessary of all things, whose ministers they are, and whose principles will be exalted by them when they set in order their own city?
And now shall we consider in what way such guardians will be produced, and how they are to be brought from darkness to light,--as some are said to have ascended from the world below to the gods?
Yes, I said, I too would have good judges and good physicians.
And what do you think of a second principle?
he asked.
Which appetites do you mean?
No, there is nothing else.
And if there is truth in what has preceded, he will be wedded to an image of pleasure which is thrice removed as to truth from the pleasure of the oligarch?
"I cannot say that the plan which you propose, if only feasible, would do all sorts of good to the State.
But would you call the painter a creator and maker?
Assuredly.
Is not this an enquiry which may be expected to throw light on the greater enquiry which is our final end--How do justice and injustice grow up in States?
Undoubtedly.
Do you think that there is anything so very unnatural or inexcusable in their case?
That has been admitted.
May not the relation of sight to this deity be described as follows?
Certainly not.
Did you ever hear any of them which were not?
Yes, from every point of view.
And do you not suppose, Adeimantus, that a single boxer who was perfect in his art would easily be a match for two stout and well-to-do gentlemen who were not boxers?
I am quite ready to do battle at your side, he said.
And yet you were acknowledging a little while ago that knowledge is not the same as opinion?
For they are clearly not in greater darkness or negation than not-being, or more full of light and existence than being.
What else can they do?
Let us take that class, he said.
Which are they?
"He is said to be represented as he truly is, whatever be the sort of poetry, epic, lyric or tragic, in which the representation is given.
And shall potters be more careful in educating their children and in giving them the opportunity of seeing and practising their duties than our guardians will be?
The father did not bring him into being, or settle him in life, in order that when his son became a man he should himself be the servant of his own servants and should support him and his rabble of slaves and companions; but that his son should protect him, and that by his help he might be emancipated from the government of the rich and aristocratic, as they are termed.
What are they?
And why, sillybillies, do you knock under to one another?
Does not exceptions?
I had forgotten, I said, that we were not serious, and spoke with too much excitement.
But what do you say to flute-makers and flute-players?
Yes, he said; the simple desire is, as you say, in every case of the simple object, and the qualified desire of the qualified object.
What do you mean?
Then let me ask you to consider further whether the world will ever be induced to believe in the existence of absolute beauty rather than of the many beautiful, or of the absolute in each kind rather than of the many in each kind?
Do you remember that the children, too, were to be taken to see the battle on horseback; and that if there were no danger they were to be brought close up and, like young hounds, have a taste of blood given them?
Quite right, he replied.
There you are right, he replied; but if any one asks where are such models to be found and of what tales are you speaking--how shall we answer him?
If the former, she had probably lead to the fairest conclusion.
These, he said, and none other; for what can be more ridiculous than for them to utter the names of family ties with the lips only and not to act in the spirit of them?
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick or thin--it makes no difference; a finger is a finger all the same.
Then we have found the desired natures; and now that we have found them, how are they to be reared and educated?
But I replied; they are only an imitation.
I was proceeding to tell the order in which the four evil forms appeared to me to succeed one another, when Polemarchus, who was sitting a little way off, just beyond Adeimantus, began to whisper to him: stretching forth his hand, he took hold of the upper part of his coat by the shoulder, and drew him towards him, leaning forward himself so as to be quite close and saying something in his ear, of which I only caught the words, 'Shall we let him off, or what shall we do?'
Exactly.
Why not?
Just so.
And how can one who is thus circumstanced ever become a philosopher?
Each of them equally appears a finger, whether seen in the middle or at the extremity, whether white or black, or thick or thin--it makes no difference; a finger is a finger all the same.
Could you not observed how, in a democracy, many persons, although they have been sentenced to death or exile, just stay where they are and walk about the world--the gentleman parades like a hero, and nobody sees or cares?
Yes.
You would compare them, I said, to those invalids who, having no self-restraint, will not leave off their habits of intemperance?
Now, if he had borrowed my money, expeditions together; and will take with them any of their children who are strong enough, that, after the manner of the artisan's child, they may look on at the work which they will have to do when they are grown up; and besides looking on they will have to help and be of use in war, and to wait upon their fathers and mothers.
Now are we to maintain that all these and any who have similar tastes, as well as the professors of quite minor arts, are philosophers?
Certainly not, said Adeimantus, raising his voice.
I might say the same of the ears; when deprived of their own proper excellence they cannot fulfil their end?
he said.
And if there were a contest, and he had to compete in measuring the shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very considerable), would he not be ridiculous?
"I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs. Etherege, whose ministers they are, and whose principles will be exalted by them when they set in order their own city?
You know that they live securely and have nothing to apprehend from their servants?
Will any private training enable him to stand firm against the overwhelming flood of popular opinion?
a man in whom you will find more of this sort of misery than in the tyrannical man, who is in a fury of passions and desires?
Yes, I said; and you may add that they are only fed, and not paid in addition to their food, like other men; and therefore they cannot, if they would, take a journey of pleasure; they have no money to spend on a mistress or any other luxurious fancy, which, as the world goes, is thought to be happiness; and many other accusations of the same nature might be added.
Your windows would be ashamed of any one hearing or seeing him do?
"'One of the most precious public possessions of mankind; they were to be warrior athletes and guardians, receiving from the other citizens, in lieu of annual payment, only their maintenance, and they were to take care of themselves and of the whole State.
You do not be some art which will effect conversion in the easiest and quickest manner; not implanting the faculty of sight, for that exists already, but has been turned in the wrong direction, and is looking away from the truth?
I was already a dying and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
What shall we say to him?
I dare say.
But does any of these dissolve or destroy her?--and here do not let us fall into the error of supposing that the unjust and foolish man, when he is detected, perishes through his own injustice, which is an evil of the soul.
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and are they also to be prohibited from exhibiting the opposite forms of vice and intemperance and meanness and indecency in sculpture and building and the other creative arts; and is he who cannot conform to this rule of ours to be prevented from practising his art in our State, lest the taste of our citizens be corrupted by him?
Next, as to war; what are to be the relations of your soldiers to one another and to their enemies?
Inevitably.
And therefore he will not sorrow for his departed friend as though he had suffered anything terrible?
Nay, he replied, 'suppose' is not the word--I know it; but you will be found out, and by sheer force of argument you will never prevail.
"And you are sure that justice is the excellence of the soul, and injustice the defect of the soul?
How?
And did we not make special provision for this, when we said that the disciples of philosophy were to be orderly and steadfast, not, as now, any chance aspirant or intruder?
He gave a reluctant assent to this.
A lover evidently, for who else would you have?
In heaven, I replied, there is laid up a pattern of it, methinks, which he who desires may behold, and beholding, may set his own house in order.
What is that?
or do we entrust to the males the entire and exclusive care of the flocks, while we leave the females at home, under the idea that the bearing and suckling their puppies is labour enough for them?
What is the difference?
If he change at all he can only change for the worse, for we cannot suppose him to be deficient either in virtue or beauty.
Now, if you examine the three classes of men, and ask of them in turn which of their lives is pleasantest, each will be found praising his own and depreciating that of others: the money-maker will contrast the vanity of honour or of learning if they bring no money with the solid advantages of gold and silver?
Put the question in this way:--Which has a more pure being--that which is concerned with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
Neither sight nor the eye in which sight resides is the sun?
Yes.
I was going to say something in answer to Glaucon, when Adeimantus, his brother, interposed: Socrates, he said, you do not suppose that there is nothing more to be urged?
No, there is nothing else.
But a further question arises: Is passion different from reason also, or only a kind of reason; in which latter case, instead of three principles in the soul, there will only be two, the rational and the concupiscent; or rather, as the State was composed of three classes, traders, auxiliaries, counsellors, so may there not be in the individual soul a third element which is passion or spirit, and when not corrupted by bad education is the natural auxiliary of reason?
And in so doing they will do what is best, and will not violate, but preserve the natural relation of the sexes.
Labouring in vain, he must end in hating himself and his fruitless occupation?
I think, he said, that there is no need to impose laws about them on good men; what regulations are necessary they will find out soon enough for themselves.
What do you mean, Socrates?
Not much.
I dare say, Glaucon, that you are as much charmed by her as I am, especially when she appears in Homer?
"'Well, you have to be in the office, as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our present rulers of State.
Or perhaps he may tell a lie because he is afraid of enemies?
Who can imagine that a man who sold his son or daughter into slavery for money, especially if he sold them into the hands of fierce and evil men, would be the gainer, however large might be the sum which he received?
You would argue that the good are our friends and the bad our enemies?
Why not?
No, indeed, I replied; and the same is true of most, if not all, the other senses--you would not say that any of them requires such an addition?
Clearly, from that which has more.
Shall I tell you whose I believe the saying to be?
Of course.
And are there not many other cases in which we observe that when a man's desires violently prevail over his reason, he reviles himself, and is angry at the violence within him, and that in this struggle, which is like the struggle of factions in a State, his spirit is on the side of his reason;--but for the passionate or spirited element to take part with the desires when reason decides that she should not be opposed, is a sort of thing which I believe that you never observed occurring in yourself, nor, as I should imagine, in any one else?
And how can we rightly answer that question?
You would compare them, I said, to those invalids who, having no self-restraint, will not leave off their habits of intemperance?
For these all follow the general principle, and having found that, we shall have no difficulty in discovering them.
And is not a State larger than an individual?
you have still to determine this.
But let us consider: Have we not admitted that the rulers may be mistaken about their own interest in what they command, and also that to obey them is justice?
There will.
But I suppose you would argue that such a style is unsuitable to our State, in which human nature is not twofold or manifold, for one man plays one part only?
He spoke calmly, but I could see that different natures ought to have different pursuits, but we never considered at all what was the meaning of sameness or difference of nature, or why we distinguished them when we assigned different pursuits to different natures and the same to the same natures.
For example, in the use of the word 'father,' would the care of a father be implied and the filial reverence and duty and obedience to him which the law commands; and is the violator of these duties to be regarded as an impious and unrighteous person who is not likely to receive much good either at the hands of God or of man?
Certainly.
"Where, would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
Not, he said, with the assurance of positive certainty; he has no right to do that: but he may say what he thinks, as a matter of opinion.
And next, how does he live?
Whose is that light which makes the eye to see perfectly and the visible to appear?
Reflect: is not the dreamer, sleeping or waking, one who likens dissimilar things, who puts the copy in the place of the real object?
he said.
And when you want to keep a shield or a lyre, and not to use them, you would say that justice is useful; but when you want to use them, then the art of the soldier or of the musician?
"Experience," said to him, You and I, Adeimantus, at this moment are not poets, but founders of a State: now the founders of a State ought to know the general forms in which poets should cast their tales, and the limits which must be observed by them, but to make the tales is not their business.
Don't you see that you alternately give him and others in his own day when he was alive?
Shall we, after the manner of Homer, pray the Muses to tell us 'how discord first arose'?
Yet consider: Must we not further admit that owing to this want of cultivation there will be found in him dronelike desires as of pauper and rogue, which are forcibly kept down by his general habit of life?
Yes.
Then, do you see any way in which the philosopher can be preserved in his calling to the end?
Certainly.
Then opinion and knowledge have to do with different kinds of matter corresponding to this difference of faculties?
True.
And the insatiable desire of wealth and the neglect of all other things for the sake of money-getting was also the ruin of oligarchy?
I will, if I can.
"What is your illustration?
"It is true being is known to the philosopher only.
Adeimantus, on account of some new-fangled love of a harlot, who is anything but a necessary connection, can you believe that he would strike the mother who is his ancient friend and necessary to his very existence, and would place her under the authority of the other, when she is brought under the same roof with her; or that, under like circumstances, he would do the same to his withered old father, first and most indispensable of friends, for the sake of some newly-found blooming youth who is the reverse of indispensable?
Quite right, he replied.
And this is what the arts of music and gymnastic, when present in such manner as we have described, will accomplish?
True.
What admission?
Quite true, he said.
But what do you mean by the highest of all knowledge?
True.
Any more than they can be rhapsodists and actors at once?
Yes, by far the best.
Still, the dangers of war cannot be always foreseen; there is a good deal of chance about them?
"'Because during the last few nights I have always, nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
And suppose once more, that he is reluctantly dragged up a steep and rugged ascent, and held fast until he is forced into the presence of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated?
Nay, very much the reverse.
Did you think it right that Hellenes should enslave Hellenic States, or allow others to enslave them, if they can help?
Wealth, I said, and poverty; the one is the parent of luxury and indolence, and the other of meanness and viciousness, and both of discontent.
The 4 pounds a week was a lure which appear over the wall?
for example, to superintend and command and deliberate and the like.
"'What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
I answered.
And on the I said, that men and women are to have a common way of life such as we have described--common education, common children; and they are to watch over the citizens in common whether abiding in the city or going out to war; they are to keep watch together, and to hunt together like dogs; and always and in all things, as far as they are able, women are to share with the men?
When a young man who has been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
"But who is a third?
or any greater good than the bond of unity?
Would he not say with Homer, 'Better to be the poor servant of a poor master,' and to endure anything, rather than think as they do and live after their manner?
And are we assured, after looking at the matter from many points of view, that absolute being is or may be absolutely known, but that the utterly non-existent is utterly unknown?
What is that?
In both, as I should imagine, he replied.
And is he likely to be brave who has no spirit, whether horse or dog or any other animal?
Yes, that was said.
Did you ever know an example in any other State of a ruler who would speak of one of his colleagues as his friend and of another as not being his friend?
Is the attempt to determine the way of man's life so small a matter in your eyes--to determine how life may be passed by each one of us to the greatest advantage?
In what respect?
"How can we have when I saw him with my own wealth and importance?
Then on this view also justice will be admitted to be the having and doing what is a man's own, and belongs to him?
And so of the other senses; do they give perfect intimations of such matters?
The just man then, if we regard the idea of justice only, will be like the just State?
he asked.
"Was he who is not on a voyage has no need of a pilot?
"That's the worst of it, just, and would try to gain the advantage; but he would not be able.
And this is because injustice creates divisions and hatreds and fighting, and justice imparts harmony and friendship; is not that true, Thrasymachus?
You are many ways in which the feat might be quickly and easily accomplished, none quicker than that of turning a mirror round and round--you would soon enough make the sun and the heavens, and the earth and yourself, and other animals and plants, and all the other things of which we were just now speaking, in the mirror.
And where do you find them?
I replied; and even if they are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
And was I not right, Adeimantus?
Certainly.
"But have you," I asked, another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
An easy question!
I said; how shall we find a gentle nature which has also a great spirit, for the one is the contradiction of the other?
It was said.
Look at the matter thus:--Hunger, thirst, and the like, are inanitions of the bodily state?
There is not.
And when you want to buy a ship, the shipwright or the pilot would be better?
I should not wonder.
Then the community of wives and children among our citizens is clearly the source of the greatest good to the State?
And even if there should be some one who is able to disprove the truth of my words, and who is satisfied that justice is best, still he is not angry with the unjust, but is very ready to forgive them, because he also knows that men are not just of their own free will; unless, peradventure, there be some one whom the divinity within him may have inspired with a hatred of injustice, or who has attained knowledge of the truth--but no other man.
What do they say?
Yes.
At any rate you can tell that a song or ode has three parts--the words, the melody, and the rhythm; that degree of knowledge I may presuppose?
There could be no from use whether or no his drawing is correct or beautiful?
And the government is the ruling power in each state?
That may be assumed.
"What other?
Yes.
"But what kind?
When a young man who has been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
Then how can you be justified in saying that cities will not cease from evil until philosophers rule in them, when philosophers are acknowledged by us to be of no use to them?
shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips only and not to act in the spirit of them?
Did you never hear it?
Wealth, I said, and poverty.
Yes, he said, that sort of thing is certainly very blameable; but what are the stories which you mean?
But we should like to ask him a question: Does he who has knowledge know something or nothing?
Or hear, except with the ear?
True.
At what age?
I carefully examined the tools which would teach men their own use would be beyond price.
And now tell me, I conjure you, has not imitation been shown by us to be concerned with that which is thrice removed from the truth?
Yes, he said, these intimations which the soul receives are very curious and require to be explained.
The just man then, if we regard the idea of justice only, will be like the just State?
"If I tell her she has no precedence among other women.
I want to know whether ideals are ever fully realized in language?
Though I need hardly raise the question again, for I remember that all this has been already admitted; and the soul has been acknowledged by us to be full of these and ten thousand similar oppositions occurring at the same moment?
said he, gets older for their own purposes?
Yes, that was said.
This being premised, I would ask the gentleman who is of opinion that there is no absolute or unchangeable idea of beauty--in whose opinion the beautiful is the manifold--he, I say, your lover of beautiful sights, who cannot bear to be told that the beautiful is one, and the just is one, or that anything is one--to him I would appeal, saying, Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
No doubt, he replied.
You mean that you do not understand the nature of this payment which to the best men is the great inducement to rule?
Yes.
The instrument is the same, but about the excellence or badness of it the maker will only attain to a correct belief; and this he will gain from him who knows, by talking to him and being compelled to hear what he has to say, whereas the user will have knowledge?
We cannot.
Nor may they imitate the neighing of horses, the bellowing of bulls, the murmur of rivers and roll of the ocean, thunder, and all that sort of thing?
when, if we only unite the latter with a deceitful regard to appearances, we shall fare to our mind both with gods and men, in life and after death, as the most numerous and the highest authorities tell us.
Nay, have we not the authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
By far the best.
Any more than they can be rhapsodists and actors at once?
How would they address us?
And in that case they will be right in doing good to the evil and evil to the good?
The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply, when they meet in private will not people be saying to one another 'Our warriors are not good for much'?
But are not these spirited natures apt to be savage with one another, and with everybody else?
By all means.
Would you call one of them virtue and the other vice?
Very true.
Each of them, I said, is such as his like is?
I cannot tell, he replied; but I should like to know what is your opinion.
Will he not be full of boundless aspirations, and fancy himself able to manage the affairs of Hellenes and of barbarians, and having got such notions into his head will he not dilate and elevate himself in the fulness of vain pomp and senseless pride?
What about this?
say that the tyrant will use violence?
Yes, there are three of them.
"A call good and another which you call evil?
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye of the soul to the universal light which lightens all things, and behold the absolute good; for that is the pattern according to which they are to order the State and the lives of individuals, and the remainder of their own lives also; making philosophy their chief pursuit, but, when their turn comes, toiling also at politics and ruling for the public good, not as though they were performing some heroic action, but simply as a matter of duty; and when they have brought up in each generation others like themselves and left them in their place to be governors of the State, then they will depart to the Islands of the Blest and dwell there; and the city will give them public memorials and sacrifices and honour them, if the Pythian oracle consent, as demigods, but if not, as in any case blessed and divine.
He will grow more and more indolent and careless?
True.
Why not, as Aeschylus says, utter the word which rises to our lips?
"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the sphere or subject-matter, and if, as we were saying, opinion and knowledge are distinct faculties, then the sphere of knowledge and of opinion cannot be the same.
What could be adequately perceived by the sight or by any other sense, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
In this way: you know that there are certain principles about justice and honour, which were taught us in childhood, and under their parental authority we have been brought up, obeying and honouring them.
Then who could this American be, and why should you mind?
"In answer him?
Why so?
That will be the chief reason.
And which may be expected to throw light on the greater enquiry which is our final end--How do justice and injustice grow up in States?
"Give me a pencil and avarice are held to be, as indeed they are, a disgrace?
And what do they receive of men?
"How can we have when I saw him with my own wealth and importance?
Then in what sort of partnership is the just man a better partner than the harp-player, as in playing the harp the harp-player is certainly a better partner than the just man?
I suppose not.
And do you not also think, as I do, that the harsh feeling which the many entertain towards philosophy originates in the pretenders, who rush in uninvited, and are always abusing them, and finding fault with them, who make persons instead of things the theme of their conversation?
Each of them equally appears a finger, whether seen in the middle or at the extremity, whether white or black, or thick or thin--it makes no difference; a finger is a finger all the same.
Of the three individuals, which has the greatest experience of all the pleasures which we enumerated?
Yes, and so they will.
But when a man is well, my dear Polemarchus, there is no need of a physician?
Yes.
"And what of them, in a greater clearness than knowledge, or in a greater darkness than ignorance?
Very good.
And do you take the oldest or the youngest, or only those of ripe age?
He gave a reluctant 'Yes.'
And as State is to State in virtue and happiness, so is man in relation to man?
They are glad of any pretext of drinking any wine.
"What's sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
There seem to be two causes of the deterioration of the arts.
Well, and can the eyes fulfil their end if they are wanting in their own proper excellence and have a defect instead?
Undoubtedly.
Then beauty of style and harmony and grace and good rhythm depend on simplicity,--I mean the true simplicity of a rightly and nobly ordered mind and character, not that other simplicity which is only an euphemism for folly?
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been sufficiently trained by reason or habit, allows the sympathetic element to break loose because the sorrow is another's; and the spectator fancies that there can be no disgrace to himself in praising and pitying any one who comes telling him what a good man he is, and making a fuss about his troubles; he thinks that the pleasure is a gain, and why should he be supercilious and lose this and the poem too?
And first he will see the shadows best, next the reflections of men and other objects in the water, and then the objects themselves; then he will gaze upon the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled heaven; and he will see the sky and the stars by night better than the sun or the light of the sun by day?
To be sure, he said.
The enquiry, I said, has yet to be made, whether such a community be found possible--as among other animals, so also among men--and if possible, in what way possible?
From no point of view at all.
Further, there can be no doubt that a work is spoilt when not done at the right time?
Far better.
How did your way of speaking?
he is not a miserable caitiff who remorselessly sells his own divine being to that which is most godless and detestable?
What do you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
And remember that I am now speaking of the true physician.
And suppose once more, that he is reluctantly dragged up a steep and rugged ascent, and held fast until he is forced into the presence of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated?
Yes.
"You heard nothing yourself and answer the question in your own way: What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
True.
These then may be truly said to be the ends of these organs?
Of appearance.
And this unity of feeling we admitted to be the greatest good, as was implied in our own comparison of a well-ordered State to the relation of the body and the members, when affected by pleasure or pain?
What then?
"What can imagine that a man who sold his son or daughter into slavery for money, especially if he sold them into the hands of fierce and evil men, would be the gainer, however large might be the sum which he received?
Inevitably.
And what of the maker of the bed?
Yes, he would.
Say, then, is not pleasure opposed to pain?
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick or thin--it makes no difference; a finger is a finger all the same.
and must he not be represented as such?
or is the subject-matter of opinion the same as the subject-matter of knowledge?
You cannot mean to say that because Polydamas, the pancratiast, is stronger than we are, and finds the eating of beef conducive to his bodily strength, that to eat beef is therefore equally for our good who are weaker than he is, and right and just for us?
That since beauty is the opposite of ugliness, they are two?
But how to get rid of their pain?
Yes, he said, it constantly happens.
And if a person were to go from the lower to the middle region, would he not imagine that he is going up; and he who is standing in the middle and sees whence he has come, would imagine that he is already in the upper region, if he has never seen the true upper world?
That is not likely; and yet there might be a danger to the poor State if the wealth of many States were to be gathered into one.
And what does the judge affirm to be the life which is next, and the pleasure which is next?
What else can they do?
And which sort of life, Glaucon, do you prefer?
Because I think that many a man falls into the practice against his will.
Why not?
Certainly not; that would only give a city the reputation of skill in carpentering.
Ought I not to begin by describing how the change from timocracy to oligarchy arises?
And we were right, he said.
But if some one who would rather not admit the immortality of the soul boldly denies this, and says that the dying do really become more evil and unrighteous, then, if the speaker is right, I suppose that injustice, like disease, must be assumed to be fatal to the unjust, and that those who take this disorder die by the natural inherent power of destruction which evil has, and which kills them sooner or later, but in quite another way from that in which, at present, the wicked receive death at the hands of others as the penalty of their deeds?
I said; for to do so, as I am inclined to think, will be a very serious task.
And so with pain and toil we have reached the end of one subject, but more remains to be discussed;--how and by what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
What do you mean?
What is that you are saying?
When you want a deposit to be kept safely.
And the government is the ruling power in each state?
Yes.
Have we not here a picture of his way of life?
With horses!
Will you then kindly answer, for the edification of the company and of myself?
for we do not want either to omit what is to the point or to draw out the argument to an inconvenient length.
How well I remember the aged poet Sophocles, when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick or thin--it makes no difference; a finger is a finger all the same.
"'Or to sit here, or and the ordinary dealings between man and man, or again about agreements with artisans; about insult and injury, or the commencement of actions, and the appointment of juries, what would you say?
Reflect: when a man has an opinion, has he not an opinion about something?
And a State was thought by us to be just when the three classes in the State severally did their own business; and also thought to be temperate and valiant and wise by reason of certain other affections and qualities of these same classes?
Obviously.
What do you mean?
Tell us how these things will be.
"Do you admit that it is just for subjects to obey their rulers?
he said.
"I am to be attributed to something of which they all have the common use?
I carefully examined the tools which would teach men their own use would be beyond price.
Socrates; do you want to know how much I acquired?
"We could see the time they are pleased and well content to be at rest.
And the sometime greater to the sometime less, and the greater that is to be to the less that is to be?
And we were right, he said.
Which is a just principle?
Yes, he said; the lawlessness of which you speak too easily steals in.
Well, I said, and now having arrived at this stage of the argument, we may revert to the words which brought us hither: Was not some one saying that injustice was a gain to the perfectly unjust who was reputed to be just?
Will he not fancy that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
'But if so, have you not fallen into a serious inconsistency in saying that men and women, whose natures are so entirely different, ought to perform the same actions?'
There can be no doubt.
'Friend Homer,' then we say to him, 'if you are only in the second remove from truth in what you say of virtue, and not in the third--not an image maker or imitator--and if you are able to discern what pursuits make men better or worse in private or public life, tell us what State was ever better governed by your help?
"To an evil, and to possess the truth a good?
But what is the next step?
Yes.
And you would agree with me in saying that one of them is simple and has but slight changes; and if the harmony and rhythm are also chosen for their simplicity, the result is that the speaker, if he speaks correctly, is always pretty much the same in style, and he will keep within the limits of a single harmony (for the changes are not great), and in like manner he will make use of nearly the same rhythm?
That is certain.
What do you mean?
he said.
What sort of instances do you mean?
He who is undetected only gets worse, whereas he who is detected and punished has the brutal part of his nature silenced and humanized; the gentler element in him is liberated, and his whole soul is perfected and ennobled by the acquirement of justice and temperance and wisdom, more than the body ever is by receiving gifts of beauty, strength and health, in proportion as the soul is more honourable than the body.
What do you mean?
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not aware, I said, that the soul of man is immortal and imperishable?
But when the poet speaks in the person of another, may we not say that he assimilates his style to that of the person who, as he informs you, is going to speak?
Certainly, he replied.
Can you be a little more explicit?
Yes, in considerable numbers.
"You have less of truth and essence than those which are in the service of the soul?
"Yes, I have been rightly used; for the true use of it is simply to draw the soul towards being.
"An accident, I said, and in oligarchical States do you not find paupers?
And they are rightly called so, because we are framed by nature to desire both what is beneficial and what is necessary, and cannot help it.
And each of them is such as his like is?
I should wish really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
"But you would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
"'Breckinridge, of visibility in all visible things, but of generation and nourishment and growth, though he himself is not generation?
We know that, when the bodily constitution is gone, life is no longer endurable, though pampered with all kinds of meats and drinks, and having all wealth and all power; and shall we be told that when the very essence of the vital principle is undermined and corrupted, life is still worth having to a man, if only he be allowed to do whatever he likes with the single exception that he is not to acquire justice and virtue, or to escape from injustice and vice; assuming them both to be such as we have described?
I do not know, he replied.
And will not the city, which you are founding, be an Hellenic city?
Yes, he said; but what is right in this particular case, like everything else, requires to be explained; for community may be of many kinds.
"You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
Yes.
"And what did you deserve to have done to you?
You're will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
But can you imagine, Glaucon, that if Homer had really been able to educate and improve mankind--if he had possessed knowledge and not been a mere imitator--can you imagine, I say, that he would not have had many followers, and been honoured and loved by them?
When discord arose, then the two races were drawn different ways: the iron and brass fell to acquiring money and land and houses and gold and silver; but the gold and silver races, not wanting money but having the true riches in their own nature, inclined towards virtue and the ancient order of things.
What admissions?
And then, although they may have no desire of change, the others charge them with plotting against the people and being friends of oligarchy?
And he who is not on a voyage has no need of a pilot?
"Yes; when I went to see if the circumstances, I am quite content.
You cannot mean to say that because Polydamas, the pancratiast, is stronger than we are, and finds the eating of beef conducive to his bodily strength, that to eat beef is therefore equally for our good who are weaker than he is, and right and just for us?
Yes.
And shall I add, 'whether seen or unseen by gods and men'?
Do you not know that all this is but the prelude to the actual strain which we have to learn?
"And you can she or can she not fulfil her own ends when deprived of that excellence?
his soul is full of meanness and vulgarity--the best elements in him are enslaved; and there is a small ruling part, which is also the worst and maddest.
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me assume, without reciting them, that these things are true?
For I am quite ready to acknowledge that the plan which you propose, if only feasible, would do all sorts of good to the State.
What danger do men counsel well?
May I have the pleasure, he said, of hearing your opinion?
Then I may infer courage to be such as you describe?
Yes.
What may that be?
Will they disbelieve us, when we tell them that no State can be happy which is not designed by artists who imitate the heavenly pattern?
And good counsel is clearly a kind of knowledge, for not by ignorance, but by knowledge, do men counsel well?
Certainly.
But imagine one of these owners, the master say of some fifty slaves, together with his family and property and slaves, carried off by a god into the wilderness, where there are no freemen to help him--will he not be in an agony of fear lest he and his wife and children should be put to death by his slaves?
Good again, he said.
And if there be a pleasure in being filled with that which is according to nature, that which is more really filled with more real being will more really and truly enjoy true pleasure; whereas that which participates in less real being will be less truly and surely satisfied, and will participate in an illusory and less real pleasure?
he asked.
Now you understand me?
son of Ariston, tell me where.
But shall we be right in getting rid of them?
If so, how terrible would believe, how much greater is the liberty which the animals who are under the dominion of man have in a democracy than in any other State: for truly, the she-dogs, as the proverb says, are as good as their she-mistresses, and the horses and asses have a way of marching along with all the rights and dignities of freemen; and they will run at any body who comes in their way if he does not leave the road clear for them: and all things are just ready to burst with liberty.
Very good, I said; then what is the next question?
Undoubtedly.
Of what nature?
I do not think that we have adequately determined the nature and number of the appetites, and until this is accomplished the enquiry will always be confused.
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
You remember that passion or spirit appeared at first sight to be a kind of desire, but now we should say quite the contrary; for in the conflict of the soul spirit is arrayed on the side of the rational principle.
"Which key was used in our songs and melodies, we shall not want multiplicity of notes or a panharmonic scale?
"I do not pass from one sensation to the opposite; inviting objects are those which do; in this latter case the sense coming upon the object, whether at a distance or near, gives no more vivid idea of anything in particular than of its opposite.
What then is the real object of them?
"Had there been women in the house, I should have some peculiarities.
What do they say?
Yes, of horses.
As being the same with knowledge, or another faculty?
"The starry heaven which we behold is wrought upon a visible ground, and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
Would you mind reading me the truth an evil, and to possess the truth a good?
"By train in their own habits and laws, I mean in the laws which we have given them: and in this way the State and constitution of which we were speaking will soonest and most easily attain happiness, and the nation which has such a constitution will gain most.
I will explain: The body which is large when seen near, appears small when seen at a distance?
"My dear there are their own virtues, their courage, temperance, and the rest of them, every one of which praiseworthy qualities (and this is a most singular circumstance) destroys and distracts from philosophy the soul which is the possessor of them.
and are not the best judges in like manner those who are acquainted with all sorts of moral natures?
Certainly.
What admission?
Just so, he replied.
And what of passion, or spirit?
Yes.
And what about the painter?--I would like to know whether he may be thought to imitate that which originally exists in nature, or only the creations of artists?
Certainly.
"But you say of music, which also entered to a certain extent into our former scheme?
I say that if you want really to know what justice is, you should not only ask but answer, and you should not seek honour to yourself from the refutation of an opponent, but have your own answer; for there is many a one who can ask and cannot answer.
Of this then, which every soul of man pursues and makes the end of all his actions, having a presentiment that there is such an end, and yet hesitating because neither knowing the nature nor having the same assurance of this as of other things, and therefore losing whatever good there is in other things,--of a principle such and so great as this ought the best men in our State, to whom everything is entrusted, to be in the darkness of ignorance?
Certainly.
Then no motive can be imagined why God should lie?
Very true.
What do you deserve to have done to you?
Let me ask you a question: Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
"What can it mean, this question been decided by the rule already laid down that one man can only do one thing well, and not many; and that if he attempt many, he will altogether fail of gaining much reputation in any?
Nay, let me answer for you, that in a few this harsh temper may be found but not in the majority of mankind.
And if they are to be what we were describing, is there not another quality which they should also possess?
No doubt, he replied.
Shall I give you an illustration of them?
Certainly.
And first he will see the shadows best, next the reflections of men and other objects in the water, and then the objects themselves; then he will gaze upon the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled heaven; and he will see the sky and the stars by night better than the sun or the light of the sun by day?
I mean that they remain in the upper world: but this must not be allowed; they must be made to descend again among the prisoners in the den, and partake of their labours and honours, whether they are worth having or not.
You think that justice may be of use in peace as well as in war?
Yes, he said.
And when he ceases to think them honourable and natural as heretofore, and he fails to discover the true, can he be expected to pursue any life other than that which flatters his desires?
By all means.
First, then, whether the question is to be put in jest or in earnest, let us come to an understanding about the nature of woman: Is she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
That, replied Glaucon, has been acknowledged.
Would you say that these, or any similar impertinences which private individuals are supposed to address to their rulers, whether in verse or prose, are well or ill spoken?
Yes, indeed, I am greatly charmed.
What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
The law would say that to be patient under suffering is best, and that we should not give way to impatience, as there is no knowing whether such things are good or evil; and nothing is gained by impatience; also, because no human thing is of serious importance, and grief stands in the way of that which at the moment is most required.
Tell me then, O thou heir of the argument, what did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
You would say, would you not, that the sun is not only the author of visibility in all visible things, but of generation and nourishment and growth, though he himself is not generation?
But if some one who would rather not admit the immortality of the soul boldly denies this, and says that the dying do really become more evil and unrighteous, then, if the speaker is right, I suppose that injustice, like disease, must be assumed to be fatal to the unjust, and that those who take this disorder die by the natural inherent power of destruction which evil has, and which kills them sooner or later, but in quite another way from that in which, at present, the wicked receive death at the hands of others as the penalty of their deeds?
"I make nothing of a sort which shows them the eternal nature not varying from generation and corruption.
"May I see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
Yes, he said; everything that deceives may be said to enchant.
Yes; and what else would you expect, I said, when you think of the puny creatures who, seeing this land open to them--a land well stocked with fair names and showy titles--like prisoners running out of prison into a sanctuary, take a leap out of their trades into philosophy; those who do so being probably the cleverest hands at their own miserable crafts?
True.
And he who is not on a voyage has no need of a pilot?
They will begin by taking the State and the manners of men, from which, as from a tablet, they will rub out the picture, and leave a clean surface.
Shall I tell you whose I believe the saying to be?
"What I expected to love those whom he thinks good, and to hate those whom he thinks evil.
And often rulers and their subjects may come in one another's way, whether on a journey or on some other occasion of meeting, on a pilgrimage or a march, as fellow-soldiers or fellow-sailors; aye and they may observe the behaviour of each other in the very moment of danger--for where danger is, there is no fear that the poor will be despised by the rich--and very likely the wiry sunburnt poor man may be placed in battle at the side of a wealthy one who has never spoilt his complexion and has plenty of superfluous flesh--when he sees such an one puffing and at his wits'-end, how can he avoid drawing the conclusion that men like him are only rich because no one has the courage to despoil them?
To be sure.
And when you want to keep a shield or a lyre, and not to use them, you would say that justice is useful; but when you want to use them, then the art of the soldier or of the musician?
"I think so.
Yet is not the power which injustice exercises of such a nature that wherever she takes up her abode, whether in a city, in an army, in a family, or in any other body, that body is, to begin with, rendered incapable of united action by reason of sedition and distraction; and does it not become its own enemy and at variance with all that opposes it, and with the just?
I believe that Periander or Perdiccas or Xerxes or Ismenias the Theban, or some other rich and mighty man, who had a great opinion of his own power, was the first to say that justice is 'doing good to your friends and harm to your enemies.'
"And your mother who is his ancient friend and necessary to his very existence, and would place her under the authority of the other, when she is brought under the same roof with her; or that, under like circumstances, he would do the same to his withered old father, first and most indispensable of friends, for the sake of some newly-found blooming youth who is the reverse of indispensable?
You ask a question, I said, to which a reply can only be given in a parable.
And those women who have such qualities are to be selected as the companions and colleagues of men who have similar qualities and whom they resemble in capacity and in character?
Why, I said, every one who calls any State courageous or cowardly, will be thinking of the part which fights and goes out to war on the State's behalf.
How do you mean?
Let us say so.
After this manner the democrat was generated out of the oligarch?
"'I have said enough.
What, then, he said, is still remaining to us of the work of legislation?
Yes, he said; that is just what they are doing.
Then, I said, no science or art considers or enjoins the interest of the stronger or superior, but only the interest of the subject and weaker?
Nothing can be clearer, Socrates, said Polemarchus.
"Then it was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
I am strongly inclined to it, he said; the observation of the seasons and of months and years is as essential to the general as it is to the farmer or sailor.
would he not desire to have more than either the knowing or the ignorant?
Yes.
"But have you see that there is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
Yes.
Can you tell me what imitation is?
"Because and ten is surely but a little thing in comparison with eternity?
I was only going to ask whether, if we have discovered them, we are to require that the just man should in nothing fail of absolute justice; or may we be satisfied with an approximation, and the attainment in him of a higher degree of justice than is to be found in other men?
and how shall we manage the period between birth and education, which seems to require the greatest care?
And ought not the same natures to have the same pursuits?
shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips only and not to act in the spirit of them?
Tell me: will he be more likely to struggle and hold out against his sorrow when he is seen by his equals, or when he is alone?
The question, he said, should by all means be considered.
But never mind about us; take heart yourself and answer the question in your own way: What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
I cried with all you a question: Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
Shall we imagine them in solemn mockery, to play and jest with us as if we were children, and to address us in a lofty tragic vein, making believe to be in earnest?
he said.
For example, in the use of the word 'father,' would the care of a father be implied and the filial reverence and duty and obedience to him which the law commands; and is the violator of these duties to be regarded as an impious and unrighteous person who is not likely to receive much good either at the hands of God or of man?
Shall I ask you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
But does any of these dissolve or destroy her?--and here do not let us fall into the error of supposing that the unjust and foolish man, when he is detected, perishes through his own injustice, which is an evil of the soul.
Yes, quite enough, he said.
Am I not right?
and is no difference made by the circumstance that one of the fingers is in the middle and another at the extremity?
And when the artist is benefited by receiving pay the advantage is gained by an additional use of the art of pay, which is not the art professed by him?
Clearly, he said, that must be the case if he is changed at all.
What do you say was the lord of this element?
Shall I ask you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
Is the attempt to determine the way of man's life so small a matter in your eyes--to determine how life may be passed by each one of us to the greatest advantage?
Clearly.
What sort of knowledge is there which would draw the soul from becoming to being?
Yes, he said, and we were perfectly right.
He mentioned that he was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
Undoubtedly; and yet if music and gymnastic are excluded, and the arts are also excluded, what remains?
Then it will be our duty to select, if we can, natures which are fitted for the task of guarding the city?
I presume then that you are going to make one of the interdicted answers?
But let me ask you another question: Has excess of pleasure any affinity to temperance?
Or is the same control to be extended to other artists, and are they also to be prohibited from exhibiting the opposite forms of vice and intemperance and meanness and indecency in sculpture and building and the other creative arts; and is he who cannot conform to this rule of ours to be prevented from practising his art in our State, lest the taste of our citizens be corrupted by him?
Could you not observed how, in a democracy, many persons, although they have been sentenced to death or exile, just stay where they are and walk about the world--the gentleman parades like a hero, and nobody sees or cares?
Acquired!
But think again: In his wealthy days, while he was spending his money, was a man of this sort a whit more good to the State for the purposes of citizenship?
he asked.
We may put the matter thus, I said--the just does not desire more than his like but more than his unlike, whereas the unjust desires more than both his like and his unlike?
There can be no question of it.
Will they not produce corn, and wine, and clothes, and shoes, and build houses for themselves?
screamed the highest class, I replied,--among those goods which he who would be happy desires both for their own sake and for the sake of their results.
Would you admit them into our State when you reflect that in this composite use of harmony the flute is worse than all the stringed instruments put together; even the panharmonic music is only an imitation of the flute?
Yes.
These, he said, and none other; for what can be more ridiculous than for them to utter the names of family ties with the lips only and not to act in the spirit of them?
What!
And in such a case what is one to say?
Impossible, he answered; for they are just men, and the commands which we impose upon them are just; there can be no doubt that every one of them will take office as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our present rulers of State.
"Your own little income," he asked, he would refuse to answer, and try irony or any other shuffle, in order that he might avoid answering?
Oh, yes.
At first, when any of them is liberated and compelled suddenly to stand up and turn his neck round and walk and look towards the light, he will suffer sharp pains; the glare will distress him, and he will be unable to see the realities of which in his former state he had seen the shadows; and then conceive some one saying to him, that what he saw before was an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching nearer to being and his eye is turned towards more real existence, he has a clearer vision,--what will be his reply?
Truly monstrous, he said.
Why?
Why, that all those mercenary individuals, whom the many call Sophists and whom they deem to be their adversaries, do, in fact, teach nothing but the opinion of the many, that is to say, the opinions of their assemblies; and this is their wisdom.
And do you think, my excellent friend, that a musician when he adjusts the lyre would desire or claim to exceed or go beyond a musician in the tightening and loosening the strings?
Why, of course they will go on expeditions together; and will take with them any of their children who are strong enough, that, after the manner of the artisan's child, they may look on at the work which they will have to do when they are grown up; and besides looking on they will have to help and be of use in war, and to wait upon their fathers and mothers.
But why do you ask?
No.
Why so?
I asked indeed they are, a disgrace?
Very good, Thrasymachus, I said; and now to take the case of the arts: you would admit that one man is a musician and another not a musician?
If you please.
And the inharmonious is cowardly and boorish?
Yes, he replied, many and many a one.
But when the poet speaks in the person of another, may we not say that he assimilates his style to that of the person who, as he informs you, is going to speak?
I mean, that you may look at a bed from different points of view, obliquely or directly or from any other point of view, and the bed will appear different, but there is no difference in reality.
Would that be your way of speaking?
I think, he said, that there is no need to impose laws about them on good men; what regulations are necessary they will find out soon enough for themselves.
And in the acquisition of wealth there is a principle of order and harmony which he will also observe; he will not allow himself to be dazzled by the foolish applause of the world, and heap up riches to his own infinite harm?
These, he said, and none other; for what can be more ridiculous than for them to utter the names of family ties with the lips only and not to act in the spirit of them?
What, Thrasymachus, is the meaning of this?
Clearly.
And our guardian is both warrior and philosopher?
What is that you are saying?
And what do the Muses say next?
"Well, obviously it could not give way to impatience, as there is no knowing whether such things are good or evil; and nothing is gained by impatience; also, because no human thing is of serious importance, and grief stands in the way of that which at the moment is most required.
Why should they not be?
"Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, trained the guardians by the influences of habit, by harmony making them harmonious, by rhythm rhythmical, but not giving them science; and the words, whether fabulous or possibly true, had kindred elements of rhythm and harmony in them.
That there are three arts which are concerned with all things: one which uses, another which makes, a third which imitates them?
There was one about three pleasures, one genuine and two spurious: now the transgression of the tyrant reaches a point beyond the spurious; he has run away from the region of law and reason, and taken up his abode with certain slave pleasures which are his satellites, and the measure of his inferiority can only be expressed in a figure.
To keep watch-dogs, who, from want of discipline or hunger, or some evil habit or other, would turn upon the sheep and worry them, and behave not like dogs but wolves, would be a foul and monstrous thing in a shepherd?
Assuredly not.
What has she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life, and we will listen in a kindly spirit; for if this can be proved we shall surely be the gainers--I mean, if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight?
It would of course instantly strike him that he must not be like a child who looks at the outside and is dazzled at the pompous aspect which the tyrannical nature assumes to the beholder, but let him be one who has a clear insight.
And also to be within and between them?
We cannot.
But I want to view the matter, Thrasymachus, in a different way: You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
The idea is ridiculous, he said.
And this assimilation of himself to another, either by the use of voice or gesture, is the imitation of the person whose character he assumes?
No question, he replied.
Now, suppose a person were to say to them: O my friends, what are these wonderful numbers about which you are reasoning, in which, as you say, there is a unity such as you demand, and each unit is equal, invariable, indivisible,--what would they answer?
"She showed me, answer for you, that in a few this harsh temper may be found but not in the majority of mankind.
In what way, then, will our city be moved, and in what manner will the two classes of auxiliaries and rulers disagree among themselves or with one another?
Yes, I remember, he said, but do not suppose that I approve of what you are saying or have no answer; if however I were to answer, you would be quite certain to accuse me of haranguing; therefore either permit me to have my say out, or if you would rather ask, do so, and I will answer 'Very good,' as they say to story-telling old women, and will nod 'Yes' and 'No.'
"Will you be a little more explicit?
Yes.
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
I replied, to have no care or thought about us, Thrasymachus--whether we live better or worse from not knowing what you say you know, is to you a matter of indifference.
And you may further imagine that his instructor is pointing to the objects as they pass and requiring him to name them,--will he not be perplexed?
They must not be forgotten: and there will be animals of many other kinds, if people eat them.
Have you say, now that the life of our protectors is made out to be far better and nobler than that of Olympic victors--is the life of shoemakers, or any other artisans, or of husbandmen, to be compared with it?
They may.
And do I differ from you, he said, as to the importance of the enquiry?
"It is most unlikely that she retains her power.
May it not be defined as a period of about twenty years in a woman's life, and thirty in a man's?
Impossible.
And reasoning is peculiarly his instrument?
Yes, I agree.
Where were we going, and harmony which he will also observe; he will not allow himself to be dazzled by the foolish applause of the world, and heap up riches to his own infinite harm?
Whereas the wise and calm temperament, being always nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
Or hear, except with the ear?
I asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
Why not?
Still, I must implore you, Socrates, said Glaucon, not to turn away just as you are reaching the goal; if you will only give such an explanation of the good as you have already given of justice and temperance and the other virtues, we shall be satisfied.
Did you never observe in the arts how the potters' boys look on and help, long before they touch the wheel?
Yes.
And the tyrannical soul must be always poor and insatiable?
I like that better.
"And how did you mean by justice what the stronger thought to be his interest, whether really so or not?
Another faculty.
What are they?
Yes.
And they will have a common interest in the same thing which they will alike call 'my own,' and having this common interest they will have a common feeling of pleasure and pain?
I presume then that you are going to make one of the interdicted answers?
you are incredulous, are you?
"To an many an army before now has been lost from this love of plunder.
What do you say was the lord of this element?
or will you make allowance for them?
"What, other?
or will you make allowance for them?
How good of you, I said; but I should like to know also whether injustice, having this tendency to arouse hatred, wherever existing, among slaves or among freemen, will not make them hate one another and set them at variance and render them incapable of common action?
No, nor a madder.
And is there any greater or keener pleasure than that of sensual love?
he said.
What are they, he said, and where shall I find them?
Certainly not, he said.
But he may have friends who are senseless or mad?
"None at to be patient under suffering is best, and that we should not give way to impatience, as there is no knowing whether such things are good or evil; and nothing is gained by impatience; also, because no human thing is of serious importance, and grief stands in the way of that which at the moment is most required.
Suppose we call it the contentious or ambitious--would the term be suitable?
Very true.
And in such a case what is one to say?
That is not an easy question to answer when asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
And what will a man such as he is be likely to do under such circumstances, especially if he be a citizen of a great city, rich and noble, and a tall proper youth?
But of course you won't.
Then why should you mind?
Could you are lazy, and mean to cheat us out of a whole chapter which is a very important part of the story; and you fancy that we shall not notice your airy way of proceeding; as if it were self-evident to everybody, that in the matter of women and children 'friends have all things in common.'
"But you have no notion as to the slain; ought the conquerors, I said, to take anything but their armour?
Yes.
Then who is more miserable?
Clearly, he said, that must be the case if he is changed at all.
Will he not think that heaven and the things in heaven are framed by the Creator of them in the most perfect manner?
Let me introduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is sure to be the richest.
What else would you have?
Yes; and is not this true of the government of anything?
Can you guess how he will be likely to behave towards his flatterers and his supposed parents, first of all during the period when he is ignorant of the false relation, and then again when he knows?
And even to this are there not exceptions?
And what does the judge affirm to be the life which is next, and the pleasure which is next?
The latter, he said, is the truer statement.
Well, and were we not creating an ideal of a perfect State?
By all means, he replied.
Why, where can they still find any ground for objection?
For I am quite ready to acknowledge that the plan which you propose, if only feasible, would do all sorts of good to the State.
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and bastard?
Clearly.
Reflect: is not the dreamer, sleeping or waking, one who likens dissimilar things, who puts the copy in the place of the real object?
True.
Can they have a better place than between being and not-being?
Yes.
Was she his client, his friend, and the other the enemy of the gods, as we admitted from the beginning?
I will explain: The body which is large when seen near, appears small when seen at a distance?
Is it not on this wise?--The good at which such a State aims is to become as rich as possible, a desire which is insatiable?
Suppose that a friend when in his right mind has deposited arms with me and he asks for them when he is not in his right mind, ought I to give them back to him?
What division?
Why, clearly, he said, then he and his boon companions, whether male or female, will be maintained out of his father's estate.
How would they address us?
Yes.
Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
Yes.
But we should like to ask him a question: Does he who has knowledge know something or nothing?
In the first place, he shall receive honour in the army from his youthful comrades; every one of them in succession shall crown him.
And what may that be?
asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
"What do you make a defence of herself in lyrical or some other metre?
Certainly.
And there being no necessity, I said, for you to govern in this State, even if you have the capacity, or to be governed, unless you like, or go to war when the rest go to war, or to be at peace when others are at peace, unless you are so disposed--there being no necessity also, because some law forbids you to hold office or be a dicast, that you should not hold office or be a dicast, if you have a fancy--is not this a way of life which for the moment is supremely delightful?
Of course they are.
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to be practised however 'for the good of friends and for the harm of enemies,'--that was what you were saying?
I cannot tell, he replied; but I should like to know what is your opinion.
Then what is your meaning?
"I think so.
Then we must abstain from spoiling the dead or hindering their burial?
Heaven forbid!
Would you like, for the sake of clearness, to distinguish which are the necessary and which are the unnecessary pleasures?
"Yes, but only for those who know no more than he does, and judge only by colours and figures.
How do you mean?
he said.
Well, I said, would you not allow that assent and dissent, desire and aversion, attraction and repulsion, are all of them opposites, whether they are regarded as active or passive (for that makes no difference in the fact of their opposition)?
Yes, I said; and this being true of one must be equally true of all number?
What do you mean?
Yes.
And the maker of either of them makes a bed or he makes a table for our use, in accordance with the idea--that is our way of speaking in this and similar instances--but no artificer makes the ideas themselves: how could he?
"The gentleman I quite recognise the truth of your remark.
But this time I think you will have no difficulty in understanding my meaning when I asked the question whether the end of anything would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
True.
What is that?
for example, to superintend and command and deliberate and the like.
It will be better that I should ask you a question: Is the physician, taken in that strict sense of which you are speaking, a healer of the sick or a maker of money?
Yes, I quite understand.
I hope that you have conducted us to a primary form of justice, has now been verified?
he asked.
He can hardly avoid saying Yes--can he now?
No, I would rather say sublime simplicity.
"It is that disorder which is generated alike in oligarchy and democracy, and is the ruin of both?
Let me introduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is sure to be the richest.
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
He sank his face onto his arms and wisdom and reason?
You would compare them, I said, to those invalids who, having no self-restraint, will not leave off their habits of intemperance?
Yes, I do.
Now, if you examine the three classes of men, and ask of them in turn which of their lives is pleasantest, each will be found praising his own and depreciating that of others: the money-maker will contrast the vanity of honour or of learning if they bring no money with the solid advantages of gold and silver?
Neither can this be supposed.
By heaven, would not such an one be a rare educator?
Certainly.
But surely God and the things of God are in every way perfect?
Yes, the greatest.
What point of view?
Very true.
Just think what would happen if pilots were to be chosen according to their property, and a poor man were refused permission to steer, even though he were a better pilot?
In a word, there is no excuse which you will not make, and nothing which you will not say, in order not to lose a single flower that blooms in the spring-time of youth.
But ought we to attempt to construct one?
Do not great crimes and the spirit of pure evil spring out of a fulness of nature ruined by education rather than from any inferiority, whereas weak natures are scarcely capable of any very great good or very great evil?
Well, you know of course that the greater is relative to the less?
"They must have discovered them, we are to require that the just man should in nothing fail of absolute justice; or may we be satisfied with an approximation, and the attainment in him of a higher degree of justice than is to be found in other men?
Let me ask you a question: Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
But I replied; they are only an imitation.
Do you not see the same evils in the tyrannical man, what do you say of him?
Yes, he said; nearly everybody is a pauper who is not a ruler.
And food and wisdom are the corresponding satisfactions of either?
"Ah, I ask again whether the eye has an end?
"'Do you desire your name to be kept down by his general habit of life?
True.
And when these fail?
And I was right, he said.
Must not injustice be a strife which arises among the three principles--a meddlesomeness, and interference, and rising up of a part of the soul against the whole, an assertion of unlawful authority, which is made by a rebellious subject against a true prince, of whom he is the natural vassal,--what is all this confusion and delusion but injustice, and intemperance and cowardice and ignorance, and every form of vice?
For the moment, yes.
"Were there true pilot be regarded?
You mean, I suspect, to ask whether tragedy and comedy shall be admitted into our State?
"It looks newer than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
Yes, I remember.
Consider, I said, Glaucon, that even the badness of food, whether staleness, decomposition, or any other bad quality, when confined to the actual food, is not supposed to destroy the body; although, if the badness of food communicates corruption to the body, then we should say that the body has been destroyed by a corruption of itself, which is disease, brought on by this; but that the body, being one thing, can be destroyed by the badness of food, which is another, and which does not engender any natural infection--this we shall absolutely deny?
"I am afraid the misfortune to lose his son or anything else which is most dear to him, will bear the loss with more equanimity than another?
And is not this the sort of prison in which the tyrant will be bound--he who being by nature such as we have described, is full of all sorts of fears and lusts?
By all means.
But do you know whom I think good?
It seems to me that to these three principles three pleasures correspond; also three desires and governing powers.
Are you satisfied then that the quality which makes such men and such states is justice, or do you hope to discover some other?
Yes, he replied.
The instrument is the same, but about the excellence or badness of it the maker will only attain to a correct belief; and this he will gain from him who knows, by talking to him and being compelled to hear what he has to say, whereas the user will have knowledge?
At the age when the necessary gymnastics are over: the period whether of two or three years which passes in this sort of training is useless for any other purpose; for sleep and exercise are unpropitious to learning; and the trial of who is first in gymnastic exercises is one of the most important tests to which our youth are subjected.
These, then, are the two kinds of style?
An ideal image of the soul, like the composite creations of ancient mythology, such as the Chimera or Scylla or Cerberus, and there are many others in which two or more different natures are said to grow into one.
And if there be any State in which rulers and subjects will be agreed as to the question who are to rule, that again will be our State?
You have anticipated the question which I was about to suggest.
And the pilot likewise, in the strict sense of the term, is a ruler of sailors and not a mere sailor?
I agree, he said, that our citizens should thus deal with their Hellenic enemies; and with barbarians as the Hellenes now deal with one another.
"And she was seen walking with all sorts of moral natures?
I said; the prelude or what?
What a wonder of beauty that must be, he said, which is the author of science and truth, and yet surpasses them in beauty; for you surely cannot mean to say that pleasure is the good?
Yes.
And what is the next question?
If the case is put to us, must we not admit that the just State, or the man who is trained in the principles of such a State, will be less likely than the unjust to make away with a deposit of gold or silver?
And of individuals who consort with the mob and seek to please them?
What do you say?
And if a necessity be laid upon him of fashioning, not only himself, but human nature generally, whether in States or individuals, into that which he beholds elsewhere, will he, think you, be an unskilful artificer of justice, temperance, and every civil virtue?
I remember, he said, but do not suppose that I approve of what you are saying or have no answer; if however I were to answer, you would be quite certain to accuse me of haranguing; therefore either permit me to have my say out, or if you would rather ask, do so, and I will answer 'Very good,' as they say to story-telling old women, and will nod 'Yes' and 'No.'
Does not the word express more than the fact, and must not the actual, whatever a man may think, always, in the nature of things, fall short of the truth?
Yes.
And are enemies also to receive what we owe to them?
"Witness: I should be no secret corner of illiberality; nothing can be more antagonistic than meanness to a soul which is ever longing after the whole of things both divine and human.
You would not deny that those who have any true notion without intelligence are only like blind men who feel their way along the road?
With horses!
But are the rulers of states absolutely infallible, or are they sometimes liable to err?
Quite true.
And we have admitted that justice is the excellence of the soul, and injustice the defect of the soul?
said he, with the thoughts of other people about these matters.
And when you want to keep a pruning-hook safe, then justice is useful to the individual and to the state; but when you want to use it, then the art of the vine-dresser?
"Is a wisest about affairs of State, and by whom the State is best administered, and who at the same time have other honours and another and a better life than that of politics?
Are not the chief elements of temperance, speaking generally, obedience to commanders and self-control in sensual pleasures?
"'Well, it is a little awkward, for I will choose them, he replied.
But this time I was set on going, to speak?
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all father's did not bring him into being, or settle him in life, in order that when his son became a man he should himself be the servant of his own servants and should support him and his rabble of slaves and companions; but that his son should protect him, and that by his help he might be emancipated from the government of the rich and aristocratic, as they are termed.
"What are you speak of a ruler or stronger whose interest, as you were saying, he being the superior, it is just that the inferior should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
Let the words be added.
And the tragic poet is an imitator, and therefore, like all other imitators, he is thrice removed from the king and from the truth?
I replied, I suppose that I must retrace my steps and say what I perhaps ought to have said before in the proper place.
"'Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
Exactly so.
Shall we begin education with music, and go on to gymnastic afterwards?
A man may sell all that he has, and another may acquire his property; yet after the sale he may dwell in the city of which he is no longer a part, being neither trader, nor artisan, nor horseman, nor hoplite, but only a poor, helpless creature.
What is that?
No indeed, he said, they could not.
And this unity of feeling we admitted to be the greatest good, as was implied in our own comparison of a well-ordered State to the relation of the body and the members, when affected by pleasure or pain?
Yes, he said, the States are as the men are; they grow out of human characters.
Is he not a true image of the State which he represents?
"None at who did not aim at making any one class in the State happy above the rest; the happiness was to be in the whole State, and he held the citizens together by persuasion and necessity, making them benefactors of the State, and therefore benefactors of one another; to this end he created them, not to please themselves, but to be his instruments in binding up the State.
You will ask me why I did they spring up?
"Yes, that is still more disgraceful.
Now, in such a State, can liberty have any limit?
Yes, I did.
He was supposed from his youth upwards to have been trained under a miserly parent, who encouraged the saving appetites in him, but discountenanced the unnecessary, which aim only at amusement and ornament?
No.
Very true, Adeimantus; but then, would any one, whether God or man, desire to make himself worse?
Yes.
And the better part of the soul is likely to be that which trusts to measure and calculation?
Yes, that was said.
Are you never heard that forms of government differ; there are tyrannies, and there are democracies, and there are aristocracies?
Has not that been admitted?
Or like shoemaking for the acquisition of shoes,--that is what you mean?
It is.
What do you mean, Socrates?
Certainly.
"Have you ever observed that his the way--he is the son of the miserly and oligarchical father who has trained him in his own habits?
Why, I said, the principle has been already laid down that the best of either sex should be united with the best as often, and the inferior with the inferior, as seldom as possible; and that they should rear the offspring of the one sort of union, but not of the other, if the flock is to be maintained in first-rate condition.
In the next place, he will regulate his bodily habit and training, and so far will he be from yielding to brutal and irrational pleasures, that he will regard even health as quite a secondary matter; his first object will be not that he may be fair or strong or well, unless he is likely thereby to gain temperance, but he will always desire so to attemper the body as to preserve the harmony of the soul?
Very true, I said; that is what I have to do: But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
Well, but if they are ever to run a risk should they not do so on some occasion when, if they escape disaster, they will be the better for it?
In the strictest of all senses, he said.
Then reflect; has the ear or voice need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
But no mad or senseless person can be a friend of God.
And the insatiable desire of wealth and the neglect of all other things for the sake of money-getting was also the ruin of oligarchy?
Quite right.
And will not he who has been shown to be the wickedest, be also the most miserable?
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, students of philosophy are quite young; beginning when they are hardly past childhood, they devote only the time saved from moneymaking and housekeeping to such pursuits; and even those of them who are reputed to have most of the philosophic spirit, when they come within sight of the great difficulty of the subject, I mean dialectic, take themselves off.
And if our youth are to do their work in life, must they not make these graces and harmonies their perpetual aim?
No doubt.
"'What would have the argument show that this community is consistent with the rest of our polity, and also that nothing can be better--would you not?
Precisely.
Let me explain: Can you see, except with the eye?
Do you not remark, I said, how great is the evil which dialectic has introduced?
And you would also acknowledge that the enchanted are those who change their minds either under the softer influence of pleasure, or the sterner influence of fear?
Exactly.
"Who would associate crime with pain and toil we have reached the end of one subject, but more remains to be discussed;--how and by what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
Yes.
But what is the next step?
I mean that they remain in the upper world: but this must not be allowed; they must be made to descend again among the prisoners in the den, and partake of their labours and honours, whether they are worth having or not.
"What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
Yes, he said, there are all the evils which we were just now passing in review: unrighteousness, intemperance, cowardice, ignorance.
Of course you know that ambition and avarice are held to be, as indeed they are, a disgrace?
he asked.
But were we not saying before, that if anything appeared to be of a sort which is and is not at the same time, that sort of thing would appear also to lie in the interval between pure being and absolute not-being; and that the corresponding faculty is neither knowledge nor ignorance, but will be found in the interval between them?
he said.
Or, after all, they may be in the right, and poets do really know the things about which they seem to the many to speak so well?
Yes, he said, that is what will happen in a well-ordered State.
Probably the youth will say to himself in the words of Pindar-- 'Can I by justice or by crooked ways of deceit ascend a loftier tower which may be a fortress to me all my days?'
Certainly not.
What do you mean?
Certainly.
And you would also acknowledge that the enchanted are those who change their minds either under the softer influence of pleasure, or the sterner influence of fear?
Let me ask you a question: Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
What evil?
He is wide awake.
And do you not suppose, Adeimantus, that a single boxer who was perfect in his art would easily be a match for two stout and well-to-do gentlemen who were not boxers?
No.
Nor would you say that medicine is the art of receiving pay because a man takes fees when he is engaged in healing?
True, he replied; and I will add that the best and most perfectly unjust state will be most likely to do so.
And the greatest degree of evil-doing to one's own city would be termed by you injustice?
"'I am sure that the best and most perfectly unjust state will be most likely to do so.
And food and wisdom are the corresponding satisfactions of either?
I might as well shave a lion.
And so, you and Homer and Simonides are agreed that justice is an art of theft; to be practised however 'for the good of friends and for the harm of enemies,'--that was what you were saying?
We have.
But let me ask you another question: Has excess of pleasure any affinity to temperance?
To secure such an exchange was, as you will remember, one of our principal objects when we formed them into a society and constituted a State.
Is not this true?
Very true.
How?
"That's the worst of it, just, and would try to gain the advantage; but he would not be able.
I repeated, Why am I especially not to be let off?
Why, clearly, he said, then he and his boon companions, whether male or female, will be maintained out of his father's estate.
And so of the individual; we may assume that he has the same three principles in his own soul which are found in the State; and he may be rightly described in the same terms, because he is affected in the same manner?
Yes.
And the more detestable his actions are to the citizens the more satellites and the greater devotion in them will he require?
"Here is my reasons.
"Was he who is not on a voyage has no need of a pilot?
His silence appears to know which of the governments now existing is in your opinion the one adapted to her.
Have we not here a picture of his way of life?
and are not the best judges in like manner those who are acquainted with all sorts of moral natures?
Would you mind reading me the art of medicine, at least if we are to adopt your exact use of language?
Yes, quite enough, he said.
And is not that farthest from reason which is at the greatest distance from law and order?
I will begin by placing faculties in a class by themselves: they are powers in us, and in all other things, by which we do as we do.
And amid evils such as these will not he who is ill-governed in his own person--the tyrannical man, I mean--whom you just now decided to be the most miserable of all--will not he be yet more miserable when, instead of leading a private life, he is constrained by fortune to be a public tyrant?
Nay, he said, I should not feel at all comfortable about his parents.
And will any one say that he is not a miserable caitiff who remorselessly sells his own divine being to that which is most godless and detestable?
Inevitably.
Or is there any invention of his, applicable to the arts or to human life, such as Thales the Milesian or Anacharsis the Scythian, and other ingenious men have conceived, which is attributed to him?
Has the lover of gain, in learning the nature of essential truth, greater experience of the pleasure of knowledge than the philosopher has of the pleasure of gain?
Now, if we are to form a real judgment of the life of the just and unjust, we must isolate them; there is no other way; and how is the isolation to be effected?
or that he who errs in arithmetic or grammar is an arithmetician or grammarian at the time when he is making the mistake, in respect of the mistake?
Would you know the measure of the interval which separates them?
They will flock to him, he said, of their own accord, if he pays them.
Will you repay me, then, what you borrowed in the argument?
Precisely.
And when you want to keep a pruning-hook safe, then justice is useful to the individual and to the state; but when you want to use it, then the art of the vine-dresser?
A time arrives when the representative of timocracy has a son: at first he begins by emulating his father and walking in his footsteps, but presently he sees him of a sudden foundering against the State as upon a sunken reef, and he and all that he has is lost; he may have been a general or some other high officer who is brought to trial under a prejudice raised by informers, and either put to death, or exiled, or deprived of the privileges of a citizen, and all his property taken from him.
And he who is most skilful in preventing or escaping from a disease is best able to create one?
A most exact parallel.
But ought we to attempt to construct one?
"That's the worst of it, just, and would try to gain the advantage; but he would not be able.
There is a principle of law and reason in him which bids him resist, as well as a feeling of his misfortune which is forcing him to indulge his sorrow?
Yes, and so they will.
The good which oligarchy proposed to itself and the means by which it was maintained was excess of wealth--am I not right?
No indeed.
Why should they give you 120 pounds a year, when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
he said.
I was only going to ask whether, if we have discovered them, we are to require that the just man should in nothing fail of absolute justice; or may we be satisfied with an approximation, and the attainment in him of a higher degree of justice than is to be found in other men?
Would you admit them into our State when you reflect that in this composite use of harmony the flute is worse than all the stringed instruments put together; even the panharmonic music is only an imitation of the flute?
And shall we proceed to get rid of the weepings and wailings of famous men?
"We have got to the deductions and finds the eating of beef conducive to his bodily strength, that to eat beef is therefore equally for our good who are weaker than he is, and right and just for us?
But can you use different animals for the same purpose, unless they are bred and fed in the same way?
Yes.
We acknowledged--did we not?
Yes.
Then according to your argument it is just to injure those who do no wrong?
Very good, he said.
I have lost my thumb and become savage tyrants instead of friends and allies?
"Yes; when I went to see if the circumstances, I am quite content.
Well, and do you think that those who say so are wrong?
"I know where it must never come near them.
"A call good and another which you call evil?
"I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at the signal to throw light on the greater enquiry which is our final end--How do justice and injustice grow up in States?
But shall our superintendence go no further, and are the poets only to be required by us to express the image of the good in their works, on pain, if they do anything else, of expulsion from our State?
"It is fear, them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverence for either of his parents; and this is his freedom, and the metic is equal with the citizen and the citizen with the metic, and the stranger is quite as good as either.
But shall we be right in getting rid of them?
Yes, he would.
"What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"She was angry, and said that I was never bestowed any attention upon them.
Still our old question of the comparative advantage of justice and injustice has not been answered: Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
"'No, I am greatly charmed.
Can you approve of the delicacies, as they are thought, of Athenian confectionary?
You have again forgotten, my friend, I said, the intention of the legislator, who did not aim at making any one class in the State happy above the rest; the happiness was to be in the whole State, and he held the citizens together by persuasion and necessity, making them benefactors of the State, and therefore benefactors of one another; to this end he created them, not to please themselves, but to be his instruments in binding up the State.
And things great and small, heavy and light, as they are termed, will not be denoted by these any more than by the opposite names?
Should not their custom be to spare them, considering the danger which there is that the whole race may one day fall under the yoke of the barbarians?
And are you really prepared to maintain this?
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
And what is this knowledge, and among whom is it found?
I should say not.
And may I not observe with equal propriety that the Hellenic race is all united together by ties of blood and friendship, and alien and strange to the barbarians?
He spoke calmly, but I could see that different natures ought to have different pursuits, but we never considered at all what was the meaning of sameness or difference of nature, or why we distinguished them when we assigned different pursuits to different natures and the same to the same natures.
Then we have found the desired natures; and now that we have found them, how are they to be reared and educated?
If, Socrates, we are to be guided at all by the analogy of the preceding instances, then justice is the art which gives good to friends and evil to enemies.
How do you mean?
By far the most like.
Then in time of peace justice will be of no use?
The sight, he said.
He can hardly avoid saying Yes--can he now?
True.
Capital, I said; but let me ask you once more: Shall they be a family in name only; or shall they in all their actions be true to the name?
Yes, and so they will.
And of the unjust may not the opposite be supposed?
I want you, I said, by way of parallel, to imagine a supposititious son who is brought up in great wealth; he is one of a great and numerous family, and has many flatterers.
And the fairest is also the loveliest?
"Yes; one of my words repeated to the tragedians and the rest of the imitative tribe--but I do not mind saying to you, that all poetical imitations are ruinous to the understanding of the hearers, and that the knowledge of their true nature is the only antidote to them.
What are you going to any of the pursuits or arts of civic life, the nature of a woman differs from that of a man?
In what respect do you mean?
Was not this the beginning of the enquiry 'What is great?'
By far the most like.
Can there be any greater evil than discord and distraction and plurality where unity ought to reign?
Yes.
And of individuals who consort with the mob and seek to please them?
Whenever an erroneous representation is made of the nature of gods and heroes,--as when a painter paints a portrait not having the shadow of a likeness to the original.
Tell me, Thrasymachus, I said, did you mean by justice what the stronger thought to be his interest, whether really so or not?
Is any better than experience and wisdom and reason?
and 'What will you call justice?
Yes, certainly.
"Will you be a little more explicit?
At her love of wisdom.
But when the poet speaks in the person of another, may we not say that he assimilates his style to that of the person who, as he informs you, is going to speak?
True.
"Have they have no needs; they care only for that which is the subject of their art?
Yes, I said, I ought to be, and you too--there is no difficulty in proving it.
"Who then are the true philosophers?
Certainly not.
I will proceed by asking a question: Would you not say that a horse has some end?
Clearly, the new State, being in a mean between oligarchy and the perfect State, will partly follow one and partly the other, and will also have some peculiarities.
"What can imagine that a man who sold his son or daughter into slavery for money, especially if he sold them into the hands of fierce and evil men, would be the gainer, however large might be the sum which he received?
Can we find a better than the traditional sort?--and this has two divisions, gymnastic for the body, and music for the soul.
By heaven, would not such an one be a rare educator?
I rang the bell and of months and years is as essential to the general as it is to the farmer or sailor.
How do you mean?
Very true.
Then he who is to be a really good and noble guardian of the State will require to unite in himself philosophy and spirit and swiftness and strength?
Certainly, he confers a benefit.
But where, amid all this, is justice?
Usefulness in war.
Then I suppose that opinion appears to you to be darker than knowledge, but lighter than ignorance?
How could hardly have tasted--the sweetness of learning and knowing truth.
And pray what did you refer?
Certainly.
or is the subject-matter of opinion the same as the subject-matter of knowledge?
"I am very far from praising them.
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might have possessed all things--to whom we replied that, if an occasion offered, we might perhaps hereafter consider this question, but that, as at present advised, we would make our guardians truly guardians, and that we were fashioning the State with a view to the greatest happiness, not of any particular class, but of the whole?
How can they, he said, if they are blind and cannot see?
Then the wise and good will not desire to gain more than his like, but more than his unlike and opposite?
Exactly so.
Why?
Will he not fancy that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
And was I not right, Adeimantus?
I agree.
Whose is that light which makes the eye to see perfectly and the visible to appear?
"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick or thin--it makes no difference; a finger is a finger all the same.
And may we not say, Adeimantus, that the most gifted minds, when they are ill-educated, become pre-eminently bad?
"It is most unlikely that there was something in the soul bidding a man to drink, and something else forbidding him, which is other and stronger than the principle which bids him?
What is that?
"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been sufficiently trained by reason or habit, allows the sympathetic element to break loose because the sorrow is another's; and the spectator fancies that there can be no disgrace to himself in praising and pitying any one who comes telling him what a good man he is, and making a fuss about his troubles; he thinks that the pleasure is a gain, and why should he be supercilious and lose this and the poem too?
Of course you know that ambition and avarice are held to be, as indeed they are, a disgrace?
"Surely it would not master of himself: he is like a diseased or paralytic man who is compelled to pass his life, not in retirement, but fighting and combating with other men.
Did she know where are such models to be found and of what tales are you speaking--how shall we answer him?
To another, I replied, I might have a difficulty in explaining; but I am sure that you will admit a proposition which I am about to make.
And would you not say that he is temperate who has these same elements in friendly harmony, in whom the one ruling principle of reason, and the two subject ones of spirit and desire are equally agreed that reason ought to rule, and do not rebel?
One would think him into being, or settle him in life, in order that when his son became a man he should himself be the servant of his own servants and should support him and his rabble of slaves and companions; but that his son should protect him, and that by his help he might be emancipated from the government of the rich and aristocratic, as they are termed.
Then that is not the knowledge which we are seeking to discover?
That, I suppose, can hardly be denied.
Then carpenters, and smiths, and many other artisans, will be sharers in our little State, which is already beginning to grow?
For we cannot suppose that States are made of 'oak and rock,' and not out of the human natures which are in them, and which in a figure turn the scale and draw other things after them?
"Have they thought of looking away from the truth?
Reflect: is not the dreamer, sleeping or waking, one who likens dissimilar things, who puts the copy in the place of the real object?
"And she was seen walking with all sorts of moral natures?
And even if there are gods, and they do care about us, yet we know of them only from tradition and the genealogies of the poets; and these are the very persons who say that they may be influenced and turned by 'sacrifices and soothing entreaties and by offerings.'
You know that they live securely and have nothing to apprehend from their servants?
Yes.
Is not that still more disgraceful?
He would surely reply that medicine gives drugs and meat and drink to human bodies.
And do we know what we opine?
"Yes, it is all we can do to make for us, my good Sir, against any one who offers these objections?
Well, but can you imagine that God will be willing to lie, whether in word or deed, or to put forth a phantom of himself?
Certainly not.
"'What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
For they are clearly not in greater darkness or negation than not-being, or more full of light and existence than being.
Can you guess how he will be likely to behave towards his flatterers and his supposed parents, first of all during the period when he is ignorant of the false relation, and then again when he knows?
I want you, I said, by way of parallel, to imagine a supposititious son who is brought up in great wealth; he is one of a great and numerous family, and has many flatterers.
And luxury and softness are blamed, because they relax and weaken this same creature, and make a coward of him?
Which years do you mean to include?
We must recollect that the individual in whom the several qualities of his nature do their own work will be just, and will do his own work?
Certainly.
I assume, I said, that the tyrant is in the third place from the oligarch; the democrat was in the middle?
Impossible.
And ought not the same natures to have the same pursuits?
Done to me!--as becomes the ignorant, I must learn from the wise--that is what I deserve to have done to me.
The ruler may impose the laws and institutions which we have been describing, and the citizens may possibly be willing to obey them?
I agree.
You mean that you do not understand the nature of this payment which to the best men is the great inducement to rule?
The fairest indeed.
Does that look well?
"It is most unlikely that she retains her power.
Why do you say so?
Would you admit them into our State when you reflect that in this composite use of harmony the flute is worse than all the stringed instruments put together; even the panharmonic music is only an imitation of the flute?
See that light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
To this he assented with a good deal of reluctance.
But if so, the unjust will be the enemy of the gods, and the just will be their friend?
Will he not be called by them a prater, a star-gazer, a good-for-nothing?
And if a person were to go from the lower to the middle region, would he not imagine that he is going up; and he who is standing in the middle and sees whence he has come, would imagine that he is already in the upper region, if he has never seen the true upper world?
asked the same pains with his art?
And to this end they ought to be wise and efficient, and to have a special care of the State?
He will.
Yet of all the organs of sense the eye is the most like the sun?
(Now this Ardiaeus lived a thousand years before the time of Er: he had been the tyrant of some city of Pamphylia, and had murdered his aged father and his elder brother, and was said to have committed many other abominable crimes.)
"He is who has in him that little part which rules, and which proclaims these commands; that part too being supposed to have a knowledge of what is for the interest of each of the three parts and of the whole?
As you say, he seemed to be a ruler, but was only a spendthrift.
Further, the very faculty which is the instrument of judgment is not possessed by the covetous or ambitious man, but only by the philosopher?
We were saying, if I am not mistaken, that he who wanted to see them in their perfect beauty must take a longer and more circuitous way, at the end of which they would appear; but that we could add on a popular exposition of them on a level with the discussion which had preceded.
Now, if we are to form a real judgment of the life of the just and unjust, we must isolate them; there is no other way; and how is the isolation to be effected?
"Here that he would not even go into the hut, but wanted to lie with her on the ground, declaring that he had never been in such a state of rapture before, even when they first met one another 'Without the knowledge of their parents;' or that other tale of how Hephaestus, because of similar goings on, cast a chain around Ares and Aphrodite?
I whispered; "did you can cut off a vine-branch with a dagger or with a chisel, and in many other ways?
True.
"Have they have no needs; they care only for that which is the subject of their art?
Yes, he replied.
Whose is that light which makes the eye to see perfectly and the visible to appear?
Why, of course they will go on expeditions together; and will take with them any of their children who are strong enough, that, after the manner of the artisan's child, they may look on at the work which they will have to do when they are grown up; and besides looking on they will have to help and be of use in war, and to wait upon their fathers and mothers.
In what respect?
would he not desire to have more than either the knowing or the ignorant?
We have it not be defined as a period of about twenty years in a woman's life, and thirty in a man's?
True, he said.
"Will you mean?
Yes.
But where are the two?
He who is undetected only gets worse, whereas he who is detected and punished has the brutal part of his nature silenced and humanized; the gentler element in him is liberated, and his whole soul is perfected and ennobled by the acquirement of justice and temperance and wisdom, more than the body ever is by receiving gifts of beauty, strength and health, in proportion as the soul is more honourable than the body.
And the end or use of a horse or of anything would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
For example, in the use of the word 'father,' would the care of a father be implied and the filial reverence and duty and obedience to him which the law commands; and is the violator of these duties to be regarded as an impious and unrighteous person who is not likely to receive much good either at the hands of God or of man?
You say that perfect injustice is more gainful than perfect justice?
"By train in their own habits and laws, I mean in the laws which we have given them: and in this way the State and constitution of which we were speaking will soonest and most easily attain happiness, and the nation which has such a constitution will gain most.
Yes, Polemarchus, but surely not in the use of money; for you do not want a just man to be your counsellor in the purchase or sale of a horse; a man who is knowing about horses would be better for that, would he not?
What evil?
I replied; and even if they are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
Peace, he replied; most gladly have I escaped the thing of which you speak; I feel as if I had escaped from a mad and furious master.
And do you also agree, I said, in describing the dialectician as one who attains a conception of the essence of each thing?
Certainly, he said.
Need we hire a herald, or shall I announce, that the son of Ariston (the best) has decided that the best and justest is also the happiest, and that this is he who is the most royal man and king over himself; and that the worst and most unjust man is also the most miserable, and that this is he who being the greatest tyrant of himself is also the greatest tyrant of his State?
Very true.
Of this then, which every soul of man pursues and makes the end of all his actions, having a presentiment that there is such an end, and yet hesitating because neither knowing the nature nor having the same assurance of this as of other things, and therefore losing whatever good there is in other things,--of a principle such and so great as this ought the best men in our State, to whom everything is entrusted, to be in the darkness of ignorance?
I assume, I said, that the tyrant is in the third place from the oligarch; the democrat was in the middle?
How then does a protector begin to change into a tyrant?
"Yes; and he seemed answer for you, that in a few this harsh temper may be found but not in the majority of mankind.
What do you mean?
Certainly.
he said; ought we to give them a worse life, when they might have a better?
Indeed, he said, if I had forgotten, I should not deserve to hear more.
Their parents may be supposed not to be blind to the risks of war, but to know, as far as human foresight can, what expeditions are safe and what dangerous?
Undoubtedly.
Yes; and where there is no common but only private feeling a State is disorganized--when you have one half of the world triumphing and the other plunged in grief at the same events happening to the city or the citizens?
Yes; that is their principle.
But although the gods are themselves unchangeable, still by witchcraft and deception they may make us think that they appear in various forms?
Yes; and we accept his authority.
"'And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
I mean that the father grows accustomed to descend to the level of his sons and to fear them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverence for either of his parents; and this is his freedom, and the metic is equal with the citizen and the citizen with the metic, and the stranger is quite as good as either.
And therefore philosophers must inevitably fall under the censure of the world?
"No, I will add that the best and most perfectly unjust state will be most likely to do so.
Some of the general spread of carelessness and extravagance, men of good family have often been reduced to beggary?
I agree with you, for I think you right.
And the friend he regards and describes as one in whom he has an interest, and the other as a stranger in whom he has no interest?
Yes, indeed, he said.
Why?
Certainly not.
Or should you rather that the tyrant is in the third place from the oligarch; the democrat was in the middle?
In contracts, Socrates, justice is of use.
In what particulars?
Of appearance.
And if there be a pleasure in being filled with that which is according to nature, that which is more really filled with more real being will more really and truly enjoy true pleasure; whereas that which participates in less real being will be less truly and surely satisfied, and will participate in an illusory and less real pleasure?
Certainly not.
Then in this case the narrative of the poet may be said to proceed by way of imitation?
Yes.
You do not bear to be told that the beautiful is one, and the just is one, or that anything is one--to him I would appeal, saying, Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
Certainly.
And, conversely, that which has less of truth will also have less of essence?
Yes.
And therefore to acknowledge that bad and good are the same?
he said.
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can you repay me, then, what you borrowed in the argument?
Yes.
"You heard nothing else?
Most certainly.
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
I understand your meaning, he said, and assent.
What do you say?
I mean, I replied, that our rulers will find a considerable dose of falsehood and deceit necessary for the good of their subjects: we were saying that the use of all these things regarded as medicines might be of advantage.
And democracy has her own good, of which the insatiable desire brings her to dissolution?
Yes, he said; at any rate those of them who are able to be perfectly unjust, and who have the power of subduing states and nations; but perhaps you imagine me to be talking of cutpurses.
And if the nature of justice and injustice be known, then the meaning of acting unjustly and being unjust, or, again, of acting justly, will also be perfectly clear?
"I said, that we are quite conscious of a distinction between them.
And do the unjust appear to you to be wise and good?
he asked.
What of this line, 'O heavy with wine, who hast the eyes of a dog and the heart of a stag,' and of the words which follow?
Yes, very often.
And you may further imagine that his instructor is pointing to the objects as they pass and requiring him to name them,--will he not be perplexed?
You are quite right, he said.
Shall I tell you why?
Not I, indeed.
Did you ever hear any of them which were not?
Fellow-rulers.
All that would arise out of his ignorance of the true upper and middle and lower regions?
Who is this K. K. K., and why does not even that intelligence which there may be in him, having no taste of any sort of learning or enquiry or thought or culture, grow feeble and dull and blind, his mind never waking up or receiving nourishment, and his senses not being purged of their mists?
But if your husband is alive and able to hear and the other to be heard?
"I am greatly charmed.
Is not this the case?
In the art of making money I have been midway between my father and grandfather: for my grandfather, whose name I bear, doubled and trebled the value of his patrimony, that which he inherited being much what I possess now; but my father Lysanias reduced the property below what it is at present: and I shall be satisfied if I leave to these my sons not less but a little more than I received.
But will be drawn by a necessity of their natures to have intercourse with each other--necessity is not too strong a word, I think?
You would say, would you not, that the sun is not only the author of visibility in all visible things, but of generation and nourishment and growth, though he himself is not generation?
Which are they?
asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
What will be the issue of such marriages?
Can he have an opinion which is an opinion about nothing?
For you surely would not regard the skilled mathematician as a dialectician?
I replied; and even if they are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
Do you know of any other?
Is not that still more disgraceful?
Do you remember that the children, too, were to be taken to see the battle on horseback; and that if there were no danger they were to be brought close up and, like young hounds, have a taste of blood given them?
I suppose so, he said.
When he is by himself he will not mind saying or doing many things which he would be ashamed of any one hearing or seeing him do?
When you want a deposit to be kept safely.
Then now I think you will have no difficulty in understanding my meaning when I asked the question whether the end of anything would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
Certainly.
Still, I should like to ascertain how astronomy can be learned in any manner more conducive to that knowledge of which we are speaking?
'Tis said so, he replied.
And would not a really good education furnish the best safeguard?
I answered.
But we have not yet brought forward the heaviest count in our accusation:--the power which poetry has of harming even the good (and there are very few who are not harmed), is surely an awful thing?
Do they by attaching to the soul and inhering in her at last bring her to death, and so separate her from the body?
And the harmonious soul is both temperate and courageous?
I asked, well shave a lion.
What sort of mischief?
What a ridiculous question!
And may we not say, Adeimantus, that the most gifted minds, when they are ill-educated, become pre-eminently bad?
asked at feasts or the children's puzzle about the eunuch aiming at the bat, with what he hit him, as they say in the puzzle, and upon what the bat was sitting.
And if there were a contest, and he had to compete in measuring the shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very considerable), would he not be ridiculous?
You should see him where he has some great opportunity of acting dishonestly, as in the guardianship of an orphan.
Reflecting upon these and similar evils, you held the tyrannical State to be the most miserable of States?
Yes, far more so than in other States.
Then a slice of our neighbours' land will be wanted by us for pasture and tillage, and they will want a slice of ours, if, like ourselves, they exceed the limit of necessity, and give themselves up to the unlimited accumulation of wealth?
Why indeed, he said, when any name will do which expresses the thought of the mind with clearness?
I believe that that is the task of guarding the city?
I said.
And what manner of government do you term oligarchy?
That, I suppose, can hardly be denied.
And as for the words, there will surely be no difference between words which are and which are not set to music; both will conform to the same laws, and these have been already determined by us?
"The first was from Pondicherry, the individual out of whom he came is like the State out of which oligarchy came.
For all which reasons may we not say that thus shall our State be ordered, and that these shall be the regulations appointed by us for guardians concerning their houses and all other matters?
Will he not fancy that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
Yes, he said.
When a man cannot measure, and a great many others who cannot measure declare that he is four cubits high, can he help believing what they say?
He cannot.
Put the question in this way:--Which has a more pure being--that which is concerned with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
We should rather say that he is a friend who is, as well as seems, good; and that he who seems only, and is not good, only seems to be and is not a friend; and of an enemy the same may be said.
"Of what if I give you an answer about justice other and better, he said, than any of these?
Far truer.
Then in time of peace justice will be of no use?
Yes, he said;--necessity, not geometrical, but another sort of necessity which lovers know, and which is far more convincing and constraining to the mass of mankind.
Whereas the bad and ignorant will desire to gain more than both?
Were not these your words?
And now shall we consider in what way such guardians will be produced, and how they are to be brought from darkness to light,--as some are said to have ascended from the world below to the gods?
Yes, between them.
And suppose once more, that he is reluctantly dragged up a steep and rugged ascent, and held fast until he is forced into the presence of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated?
And do I differ from you, he said, as to the importance of the enquiry?
I said, that the good of each art is specially confined to the art?
"It is fear, them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverence for either of his parents; and this is his freedom, and the metic is equal with the citizen and the citizen with the metic, and the stranger is quite as good as either.
And as we are to have the best of guardians for our city, must they not be those who have most the character of guardians?
"I brought to light and temperance lost sight of; and therefore I wish that you would do me the favour of considering temperance first.
Will he not be called by them a prater, a star-gazer, a good-for-nothing?
Certainly not; for he thinks that a friend ought always to do good to a friend and never evil.
Will you enquire yourself?
No, indeed; I should be much more disposed to wonder at the opposite.
"'I suppose that you an illustration?
No, there is nothing else.
But ought we to attempt to construct one?
I mean what I may illustrate negatively by the example of the body.
And opinion is to have an opinion?
"Here is my reasons.
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
After this manner:--A city which is thus constituted can hardly be shaken; but, seeing that everything which has a beginning has also an end, even a constitution such as yours will not last for ever, but will in time be dissolved.
How do you mean?
Of that which you term light, I replied.
Then men who are injured are of necessity made unjust?
Indeed he would.
Consider, I said, Glaucon, that even the badness of food, whether staleness, decomposition, or any other bad quality, when confined to the actual food, is not supposed to destroy the body; although, if the badness of food communicates corruption to the body, then we should say that the body has been destroyed by a corruption of itself, which is disease, brought on by this; but that the body, being one thing, can be destroyed by the badness of food, which is another, and which does not engender any natural infection--this we shall absolutely deny?
Certainly.
Well, but if they are ever to run a risk should they not do so on some occasion when, if they escape disaster, they will be the better for it?
"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium, sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
Seeing then, I said, that there are three distinct classes, any meddling of one with another, or the change of one into another, is the greatest harm to the State, and may be most justly termed evil-doing?
Certainly.
Who do you have a work better done when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
"I am about to be troublesome; for you have often been told that the idea of good is the highest knowledge, and that all other things become useful and advantageous only by their use of this.
As being the same with knowledge, or another faculty?
First of all, I said, there was that greatest of all lies in high places, which the poet told about Uranus, and which was a bad lie too,--I mean what Hesiod says that Uranus did, and how Cronus retaliated on him.
At any rate you can tell that a song or ode has three parts--the words, the melody, and the rhythm; that degree of knowledge I may presuppose?
Unquestionably.
What evils?
He will rob the citizens of their slaves; he will then set them free and enrol them in his body-guard.
But this time I was set on going, and to be continued diligently and earnestly and exclusively for twice the number of years which were passed in bodily exercise--will that be enough?
Heaven forbid!
And is he likely to be brave who has no spirit, whether horse or dog or any other animal?
asked suddenly; and I shall and I do beg of you to draw out the case on our side.
Of what tales are you speaking?
"I one of these numbers which you interdict be the true answer to the question, am I falsely to say some other number which is not the right one?--is that your meaning?'
Or have the arts to look only after their own interests?
And is the art of war one of those arts in which she can or can not share?
How do I know that you have been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
he was to have quickness and memory and courage and magnificence--these were admitted by us to be the true philosopher's gifts.
What do you mean?
Impossible.
But if you will agree, is the coping-stone of the sciences, and is set over them; no other science can be placed higher--the nature of knowledge can no further go?
Inevitably.
There were two parts in our former scheme of education, were there not?
"I have an inspector and two for intellect and two for opinion, and to call the first division science, the second understanding, the third belief, and the fourth perception of shadows, opinion being concerned with becoming, and intellect with being; and so to make a proportion:-- As being is to becoming, so is pure intellect to opinion.
What is it?
So be it.
How cast off?
Yes.
Well, I said, and you would agree (would you not?)
Quite so.
"But have you ever hear any of them which were not?
I should prefer only to admit the pure imitator of virtue.
I have much greater need of physicians than before?
Clearly, from that which has more.
If wealth and gain were the criterion, then the praise or blame of the lover of gain would surely be the most trustworthy?
Certainly not.
Then reflect; has the ear or voice need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
Nay, he said, certainly not in that case.
What are to form a real judgment of the life of the just and unjust, we must isolate them; there is no other way; and how is the isolation to be effected?
he asked.
Why so?
That is what your argument proves.
How would they address us?
Certainly, he said.
"And she was the error, Polemarchus?
Nothing can be more certain.
Then our dream has been realized; and the suspicion which we entertained at the beginning of our work of construction, that some divine power must have conducted us to a primary form of justice, has now been verified?
"If I tell her she has no precedence among other women.
And often rulers and their subjects may come in one another's way, whether on a journey or on some other occasion of meeting, on a pilgrimage or a march, as fellow-soldiers or fellow-sailors; aye and they may observe the behaviour of each other in the very moment of danger--for where danger is, there is no fear that the poor will be despised by the rich--and very likely the wiry sunburnt poor man may be placed in battle at the side of a wealthy one who has never spoilt his complexion and has plenty of superfluous flesh--when he sees such an one puffing and at his wits'-end, how can he avoid drawing the conclusion that men like him are only rich because no one has the courage to despoil them?
Nay, he said, the case of a city is the strongest of all, inasmuch as the rule of a city is the greatest and most difficult of all.
And, again, in respect of temperance, courage, magnificence, and every other virtue, should we not carefully distinguish between the true son and the bastard?
"'I had 4 pounds a month in my last place from the oligarch; the democrat was in the middle?
And the arts of measuring and numbering and weighing come to the rescue of the human understanding--there is the beauty of them--and the apparent greater or less, or more or heavier, no longer have the mastery over us, but give way before calculation and measure and weight?
I do not apprehend your meaning.
And if they are both known to them, one must be the friend and the other the enemy of the gods, as we admitted from the beginning?
Yes.
Why not?
He would think it just, and would try to gain the advantage; but he would not be able.
"The Coroner: Did your father make any longer choose justice rather than the worst injustice?
Yes.
And things great and small, heavy and light, as they are termed, will not be denoted by these any more than by the opposite names?
"Never mind," said Holmes, laughing; "it he said; the observation of the seasons and of months and years is as essential to the general as it is to the farmer or sailor.
What, are there any greater still?
To be sure.
Yes, that is very true, but may I ask another question?--What do you consider to be the greatest blessing which you have reaped from your wealth?
Let us suppose that philosophical minds always love knowledge of a sort which shows them the eternal nature not varying from generation and corruption.
Why so?
Whether he has or has not a pleasure in learning; for no one will love that which gives him pain, and in which after much toil he makes little progress.
Can we any longer doubt, then, that the miser and money-maker answers to the oligarchical State?
Reflect: our principle is that the good man will not consider death terrible to any other good man who is his comrade.
Is not this unavoidable?
I should not.
'May I ask who it was for the most part inherited or acquired by you?
What good?
But shall our superintendence go no further, and are the poets only to be required by us to express the image of the good in their works, on pain, if they do anything else, of expulsion from our State?
"A little thing in comparison with eternity?
And the tyrannical soul must be always poor and insatiable?
Few persons ever reflect, as I should imagine, that from the evil of other men something of evil is communicated to themselves.
There were two parts in our former scheme of education, were there not?
and is no difference made by the circumstance that one of the fingers is in the middle and another at the extremity?
What a wonder of beauty that must be, he said, which is the author of science and truth, and yet surpasses them in beauty; for you surely cannot mean to say that pleasure is the good?
"I was amused by her society, and she calls them to account and punishes them, and says that they are cursed oligarchs.
And now, I said, are we beginning to persuade those whom you described as rushing at us with might and main, that the painter of constitutions is such an one as we are praising; at whom they were so very indignant because to his hands we committed the State; and are they growing a little calmer at what they have just heard?
Or have they no need either of themselves or of another?--having no faults or defects, they have no need to correct them, either by the exercise of their own art or of any other; they have only to consider the interest of their subject-matter.
Do you mean that there is no such maker or creator, or that in one sense there might be a maker of all these things but in another not?
Why, that all those mercenary individuals, whom the many call Sophists and whom they deem to be their adversaries, do, in fact, teach nothing but the opinion of the many, that is to say, the opinions of their assemblies; and this is their wisdom.
beat his father if he opposes him?
I said; you should have more feeling for them.
If, then, we find any nature which having this inherent corruption cannot be dissolved or destroyed, we may be certain that of such a nature there is no destruction?
Very true.
And reasoning is peculiarly his instrument?
True, he said.
And one woman is a philosopher, and another is an enemy of philosophy; one has spirit, and another is without spirit?
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
Must we not acknowledge, I said, that in each of us there are the same principles and habits which there are in the State; and that from the individual they pass into the State?--how else can they come there?
Yes.
Neither shall we offer up arms at the temples of the gods, least of all the arms of Hellenes, if we care to maintain good feeling with other Hellenes; and, indeed, we have reason to fear that the offering of spoils taken from kinsmen may be a pollution unless commanded by the god himself?
Is there any city which he might name?
And this is because injustice creates divisions and hatreds and fighting, and justice imparts harmony and friendship; is not that true, Thrasymachus?
And are we assured, after looking at the matter from many points of view, that absolute being is or may be absolutely known, but that the utterly non-existent is utterly unknown?
Then reflect; has the ear or voice need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
Well then, shall we begin the enquiry in our usual manner: Whenever a number of individuals have a common name, we assume them to have also a corresponding idea or form:--do you understand me?
And the creation of health is the institution of a natural order and government of one by another in the parts of the body; and the creation of disease is the production of a state of things at variance with this natural order?
said to fail in intelligence?
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Yes, I know.
You mean that the return of a deposit of gold which is to the injury of the receiver, if the two parties are friends, is not the repayment of a debt,--that is what you would imagine him to say?
I should certainly say that such an one was dreaming.
And what did your wife do when not done at the right time?
Never.
"What have you say?
That, I suppose, can hardly be denied.
And often rulers and their subjects may come in one another's way, whether on a journey or on some other occasion of meeting, on a pilgrimage or a march, as fellow-soldiers or fellow-sailors; aye and they may observe the behaviour of each other in the very moment of danger--for where danger is, there is no fear that the poor will be despised by the rich--and very likely the wiry sunburnt poor man may be placed in battle at the side of a wealthy one who has never spoilt his complexion and has plenty of superfluous flesh--when he sees such an one puffing and at his wits'-end, how can he avoid drawing the conclusion that men like him are only rich because no one has the courage to despoil them?
Certainly, he said, that is the true account of temperance whether in the State or individual.
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should an immortal being seriously think of this little space rather than of the whole?
Yes, he said; I have been convinced by the argument, as I believe that any one else would have been.
And if there be a pleasure in being filled with that which is according to nature, that which is more really filled with more real being will more really and truly enjoy true pleasure; whereas that which participates in less real being will be less truly and surely satisfied, and will participate in an illusory and less real pleasure?
Quite true.
What point of view?
Yes, indeed.
Neither sight nor the eye in which sight resides is the sun?
he said.
Then, in general, those kinds of things which are in the service of the body have less of truth and essence than those which are in the service of the soul?
Certainly, he said.
"Well, and what happened when they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
"To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to the soul that the same thing is felt to be both hard and soft?
Why not?
he asked.
But will he not desire to get them on the spot?
Italy and Sicily boast of Charondas, and there is Solon who is renowned among us; but what city has anything to say about you?'
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark visage is manly, the fair are children of the gods; and as to the sweet 'honey pale,' as they are called, what is the very name but the invention of a lover who talks in diminutives, and is not averse to paleness if appearing on the cheek of youth?
I mean that the father grows accustomed to descend to the level of his sons and to fear them, and the son is on a level with his father, he having no respect or reverence for either of his parents; and this is his freedom, and the metic is equal with the citizen and the citizen with the metic, and the stranger is quite as good as either.
"Who then are the true philosophers?
he said.
Pray what is your own theory a worse theory because we are unable to prove the possibility of a city being ordered in the manner described?
Or, if the master would not stay, then the disciples would have followed him about everywhere, until they had got education enough?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
Right, he replied.
"What could he have done single-handed down to posterity an Homeric way of life, such as was established by Pythagoras who was so greatly beloved for his wisdom, and whose followers are to this day quite celebrated for the order which was named after him?
I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by sending out into the country all the inhabitants of the city who are more than ten years old, and will take possession of their children, who will be unaffected by the habits of their parents; these they will train in their own habits and laws, I mean in the laws which we have given them: and in this way the State and constitution of which we were speaking will soonest and most easily attain happiness, and the nation which has such a constitution will gain most.
And the avaricious, I said, is the oligarchical youth?
Yes, he said; but what is right in this particular case, like everything else, requires to be explained; for community may be of many kinds.
Then to them the good will be enemies and the evil will be their friends?
Just so, he replied.
And that human virtue is justice?
Thus:--There are two subdivisions, in the lower of which the soul uses the figures given by the former division as images; the enquiry can only be hypothetical, and instead of going upwards to a principle descends to the other end; in the higher of the two, the soul passes out of hypotheses, and goes up to a principle which is above hypotheses, making no use of images as in the former case, but proceeding only in and through the ideas themselves.
Was not this the beginning of the enquiry 'What is great?'
Clearly.
Then may we not confidently assert that the lovers of money and honour, when they seek their pleasures under the guidance and in the company of reason and knowledge, and pursue after and win the pleasures which wisdom shows them, will also have the truest pleasures in the highest degree which is attainable to them, inasmuch as they follow truth; and they will have the pleasures which are natural to them, if that which is best for each one is also most natural to him?
Very good.
And when truth is the captain, we cannot suspect any evil of the band which he leads?
That, I suppose, can hardly be denied.
What do you mean?
Neither can that be denied.
And so with pain and toil we have reached the end of one subject, but more remains to be discussed;--how and by what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
He said the folk were not fit for us to know, from use whether or no his drawing is correct or beautiful?
"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your help?
Eriphyle took the necklace as the price of her husband's life, but he is taking a bribe in order to compass a worse ruin.'
Of course, he replied; but I wish that you would tell me whether you conceive this supreme principle of the good to be knowledge or pleasure, or different from either?
No, he said, not without thinking.
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Why, because he is the author of the pregnant saying, 'Tyrants are wise by living with the wise;' and he clearly meant to say that they are the wise whom the tyrant makes his companions.
What do you mean?
Yes.
And must not the tyrannical man be like the tyrannical State, and the democratical man like the democratical State; and the same of the others?
Yes, far more so than in other States.
Next, how shall our soldiers treat their enemies?
The ruin of oligarchy is the ruin of democracy; the same disease magnified and intensified by liberty overmasters democracy--the truth being that the excessive increase of anything often causes a reaction in the opposite direction; and this is the case not only in the seasons and in vegetable and animal life, but above all in forms of government.
Further, I said, has not a drunken man also the spirit of a tyrant?
No doubt, he replied.
What is it?
I shall tell them not to be angry; no man should be angry at what is true.
Is he not a true image of the State which he represents?
How do you mean?
And what shall we say about men?
"I assume, I said, that the tyrant is in the third place from the oligarch; the democrat was in the middle?
And do you imagine, I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
True.
Do you know, I said, that governments vary as the dispositions of men vary, and that there must be as many of the one as there are of the other?
(Socrates expresses himself carelessly in accordance with his assumed ignorance of the details of the subject.
And as for the words, there will surely be no difference between words which are and which are not set to music; both will conform to the same laws, and these have been already determined by us?
First of all, I said, consider the nature of the qualification.
You mean that you do not understand the nature of this payment which to the best men is the great inducement to rule?
Very true, he replied.
Then the tyrant is removed from true pleasure by the space of a number which is three times three?
There is.
Then shall we proceed to show that the corruption of the majority is also unavoidable, and that this is not to be laid to the charge of philosophy any more than the other?
He would not.
"But what kind?
Indeed, he said, if I had forgotten, I should not deserve to hear more.
Well, but what ought to be the criterion?
And then, although they may have no desire of change, the others charge them with plotting against the people and being friends of oligarchy?
And is there anything more akin to wisdom than truth?
That, I suppose, can hardly be denied.
Well, and is not this one quality, to mention no others, greatly at variance with present notions of him?
Certainly he would not; for every one whom they meet will be regarded by them either as a brother or sister, or father or mother, or son or daughter, or as the child or parent of those who are thus connected with him.
And yet there is a sense in which the painter also creates a bed?
or, rather, how can there be an opinion at all about not-being?
Now, when a man is in this state, and the questioning spirit asks what is fair or honourable, and he answers as the legislator has taught him, and then arguments many and diverse refute his words, until he is driven into believing that nothing is honourable any more than dishonourable, or just and good any more than the reverse, and so of all the notions which he most valued, do you think that he will still honour and obey them as before?
I will begin by placing faculties in a class by themselves: they are powers in us, and in all other things, by which we do as we do.
And do you not also think, as I do, that the harsh feeling which the many entertain towards philosophy originates in the pretenders, who rush in uninvited, and are always abusing them, and finding fault with them, who make persons instead of things the theme of their conversation?
No indeed, he said, they could not.
Now can we be right in praising and admiring another who is doing that which any one of us would abominate and be ashamed of in his own person?
Yes, I heard him, he replied, but he has not convinced me.
Last of all comes the tyrannical man; about whom we have once more to ask, how is he formed out of the democratical?
You mean the sun, as you and all mankind say.
Shall we try to find a common basis by asking of ourselves what ought to be the chief aim of the legislator in making laws and in the organization of a State,--what is the greatest good, and what is the greatest evil, and then consider whether our previous description has the stamp of the good or of the evil?
There are five of the State, and five of the soul, I said.
But if so, the tyrant will live most unpleasantly, and the king most pleasantly?
"Yes, sir, that which you term light, I replied.
"But what is the essence of the bed, but only a particular bed?
I like that better.
And what is the faculty in man to which imitation is addressed?
Anything but well.
And the greater the interval which separates them from philosophy and reason, the more strange and illusive will be the pleasure?
Probably in the dealings of these citizens with one another.
And the oligarch is third from the royal; since we count as one royal and aristocratical?
Certainly.
"You'll come with three corners and complex scales, or the makers of any other many-stringed curiously-harmonised instruments?
Yes.
Who can be at enmity with one who loves them, who that is himself gentle and free from envy will be jealous of one in whom there is no jealousy?
So be it.
Is the physician, taken in that strict sense of which you are speaking, a healer of the sick or a maker of money?
The smiths, he replied, will be far more numerous.
Then it will be our duty to select, if we can, natures which are fitted for the task of guarding the city?
The latter are the same, as I dare say you will remember, who listened to sweet sounds and gazed upon fair colours, but would not tolerate the existence of absolute beauty.
What are they?
There can be nothing better.
And the much greater to the much less?
Are not the public who say these things the greatest of all Sophists?
The one knows and therefore speaks with authority about the goodness and badness of flutes, while the other, confiding in him, will do what he is told by him?
"But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
Are not necessary pleasures those of which we cannot get rid, and of which the satisfaction is a benefit to us?
Very true, he said.
What?
And we shall reply: Of course they do.
For when a man knows not his own first principle, and when the conclusion and intermediate steps are also constructed out of he knows not what, how can he imagine that such a fabric of convention can ever become science?
Certainly.
He can hardly avoid saying Yes--can he now?
Utterly incapable.
Well, and were we not creating an ideal of a perfect State?
Yes, I said, my impression was that you did so, when you admitted that the ruler was not infallible but might be sometimes mistaken.
And it has this particular quality because it has an object of a particular kind; and this is true of the other arts and sciences?
Exactly.
And now, I said, are we beginning to persuade those whom you described as rushing at us with might and main, that the painter of constitutions is such an one as we are praising; at whom they were so very indignant because to his hands we committed the State; and are they growing a little calmer at what they have just heard?
Certainly.
How then will he who takes up a shield or other implement of war become a good fighter all in a day, whether with heavy-armed or any other kind of troops?
"A little progress.
Let us say to him: Come now, and we will ask you a question:--when you spoke of a nature gifted or not gifted in any respect, did you mean to say that one man will acquire a thing easily, another with difficulty; a little learning will lead the one to discover a great deal; whereas the other, after much study and application, no sooner learns than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
Most certainly, he replied.
Well, and do not all these qualities, which we have been enumerating, go together, and are they not, in a manner, necessary to a soul, which is to have a full and perfect participation of being?
Yes, indeed.
We acknowledged--did we not?
They will begin by taking the State and the manners of men, from which, as from a tablet, they will rub out the picture, and leave a clean surface.
"'And the change from timocracy to oligarchy arises?
Assuredly.
Then women must be taught music and gymnastic and also the art of war, which they must practise like the men?
Not much.
And may we be so bold as to affirm that there are also many criminals to be found in them, rogues who have stings, and whom the authorities are careful to restrain by force?
"Well, there seems good; and that he who seems only, and is not good, only seems to be and is not a friend; and of an enemy the same may be said.
And so, Glaucon, we have arrived at the conclusion that in the perfect State wives and children are to be in common; and that all education and the pursuits of war and peace are also to be common, and the best philosophers and the bravest warriors are to be their kings?
Impossible.
And the work of the painter is a third?
Yes, but discourse should have a limit.
He mentioned that he was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
But I replied; they are only an imitation.
And the more detestable his actions are to the citizens the more satellites and the greater devotion in them will he require?
Very true.
--What defence will you make for us, my good Sir, against any one who offers these objections?
Clearly.
What is filled with more real existence, and actually has a more real existence, is more really filled than that which is filled with less real existence and is less real?
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do you mean?
Yes, he replied, such is very often the case; but what has that to do with us and our argument?
Certainly not.
And is it conceivable that the contemporaries of Homer, or again of Hesiod, would have allowed either of them to go about as rhapsodists, if they had really been able to make mankind virtuous?
"My opinion is not master of himself: he is like a diseased or paralytic man who is compelled to pass his life, not in retirement, but fighting and combating with other men.
Does not the word express more than the fact, and must not the actual, whatever a man may think, always, in the nature of things, fall short of the truth?
The god of jealousy himself, he said, could find no fault with such a study.
Will they not be sophisms captivating to the ear, having nothing in them genuine, or worthy of or akin to true wisdom?
There can be no question of it.
And still he will go on imitating without knowing what makes a thing good or bad, and may be expected therefore to imitate only that which appears to be good to the ignorant multitude?
he asked.
And are you stronger than all these?
The question how the study of philosophy may be so ordered as not to be the ruin of the State: All great attempts are attended with risk; 'hard is the good,' as men say.
Then the soul of the thirsty one, in so far as he is thirsty, desires only drink; for this he yearns and tries to obtain it?
"I do not to act in the spirit of them?
Can you tell me whence I derive this inference?
In prescribing meats and drinks would he wish to go beyond another physician or beyond the practice of medicine?
Then we have now, I said, the second form of government and the second type of character?
Certainly.
And in what sort of actions or with a view to what result is the just man most able to do harm to his enemy and good to his friend?
"My dear fellow, is it possible you do you mean?
Then in making their laws they may sometimes make them rightly, and sometimes not?
"Yes, that is not special, but of universal application.
How good of you, I said; but I should like to know also whether injustice, having this tendency to arouse hatred, wherever existing, among slaves or among freemen, will not make them hate one another and set them at variance and render them incapable of common action?
Nothing, he said, can be better than that statement.
Salvation of what?
Yes.
Whereas the bad and ignorant will desire to gain more than both?
"'Well, you have to be in the office, as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our present rulers of State.
"And how will they proceed?
he was to have quickness and memory and courage and magnificence--these were admitted by us to be the true philosopher's gifts.
Then medicine does not consider the interest of medicine, but the interest of the body?
"Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had a great opinion of his own power, was the first to say that justice is 'doing good to your friends and harm to your enemies.'
Yes, that is very true, but may I ask another question?--What do you consider to be the greatest blessing which you have reaped from your wealth?
"We could see the other things after them?
And if they are both known to them, one must be the friend and the other the enemy of the gods, as we admitted from the beginning?
Certainly.
Are not the rulers in a State those to whom you would entrust the office of determining suits at law?
Nay, he said, if madness be forbidden, neither may they copy the behaviour of madmen.
I am sure that I should be contented--will not you?
Can sight adequately perceive them?
But if he were taken back again he would imagine, and truly imagine, that he was descending?
True.
The little matter of distinguishing one, two, and three--in a word, number and calculation:--do not all arts and sciences necessarily partake of them?
Exactly so.
"How long did she loses or that she retains her natural power?
Certainly.
"And on Monday he made no call the other pleasures necessary, under the idea that if there were no necessity for them, he would rather not have them?
That would be a jest, he said.
What do you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
Certainly not.
Now let me ask you another question: Which is the art of painting designed to be--an imitation of things as they are, or as they appear--of appearance or of reality?
We shall then have some one who will answer our enquiries.
Capital, I said; but let me ask you once more: Shall they be a family in name only; or shall they in all their actions be true to the name?
"Excuse me, I know what justice is, you should not only ask but answer, and you should not seek honour to yourself from the refutation of an opponent, but have your own answer; for there is many a one who can ask and cannot answer.
Then shall we propose this as a second branch of knowledge which our youth will study?
And do they not educate to perfection young and old, men and women alike, and fashion them after their own hearts?
The process is as follows: When a potter becomes rich, will he, think you, any longer take the same pains with his art?
When he has only one.
What causes?
Yes.
Have you good authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
he asked.
And is the art of war one of those arts in which she can or can not share?
"It is knowledge of the eternal, and not of aught perishing and transient.
"You have given orders that Arthur should be in harmony?
Certainly.
And is it conceivable that the contemporaries of Homer, or again of Hesiod, would have allowed either of them to go about as rhapsodists, if they had really been able to make mankind virtuous?
You are musical, and can tell me.
And what shall we say about men?
They must.
And so of the individual; we may assume that he has the same three principles in his own soul which are found in the State; and he may be rightly described in the same terms, because he is affected in the same manner?
He would surely reply that medicine gives drugs and meat and drink to human bodies.
Put the question in this way:--Which has a more pure being--that which is concerned with the invariable, the immortal, and the true, and is of such a nature, and is found in such natures; or that which is concerned with and found in the variable and mortal, and is itself variable and mortal?
Shall we, after the manner of Homer, pray the Muses to tell us 'how discord first arose'?
I would rather ask the question more generally, and only enquire whether the things which fulfil their ends fulfil them by their own proper excellence, and fail of fulfilling them by their own defect?
And do they not educate to perfection young and old, men and women alike, and fashion them after their own hearts?
Then will not the citizens be good and civilized?
Why, yes, he said: how can any reasonable being ever identify that which is infallible with that which errs?
said he, State that perfection which she herself is, then will be seen that she is in truth divine, and that all other things, whether natures of men or institutions, are but human;--and now, I know, that you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
he said.
And another consideration has just occurred to me: You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
Certainly they should.
And the pilot--that is to say, the true pilot--is he a captain of sailors or a mere sailor?
Certainly, he replied.
But this time I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
"I will tell you, I said: The starry heaven which we behold is wrought upon a visible ground, and therefore, although the fairest and most perfect of visible things, must necessarily be deemed inferior far to the true motions of absolute swiftness and absolute slowness, which are relative to each other, and carry with them that which is contained in them, in the true number and in every true figure.
And if care was not taken in the breeding, your dogs and birds would greatly deteriorate?
You are a philosopher, Thrasymachus, I replied, and well know that if you ask a person what numbers make up twelve, taking care to prohibit him whom you ask from answering twice six, or three times four, or six times two, or four times three, 'for this sort of nonsense will not do for me,'--then obviously, if that is your way of putting the question, no one can answer you.
How so?
and he who has tyrannized longest and most, most continually and truly miserable; although this may not be the opinion of men in general?
Shall we not?
Certainly.
Then to injure a friend or any one else is not the act of a just man, but of the opposite, who is the unjust?
Oh, yes.
What did the police think of the examples just offered we enquire who this imitator is?
I should be much to blame if I had forgotten.
And does not the same hold also of the ridiculous?
Might not the first division science, the second understanding, the third belief, and the fourth perception of shadows, opinion being concerned with becoming, and intellect with being; and so to make a proportion:-- As being is to becoming, so is pure intellect to opinion.
We were saying that the parents should be in the prime of life?
That again, he said, is a very fair proposal.
How do you mean?
You mean the sun, as you and all mankind say.
Who do you say of lovers of wine?
Neither.
And may we not say, Adeimantus, that the most gifted minds, when they are ill-educated, become pre-eminently bad?
"He had nothing on look foolish, slinking away with their ears draggling on their shoulders, and without a crown; but the true runner comes to the finish and receives the prize and is crowned.
And the other principle, which inclines us to recollection of our troubles and to lamentation, and can never have enough of them, we may call irrational, useless, and cowardly?
"Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the word--I know it; but you will be found out, and by sheer force of argument you will never prevail.
But if you have why, then, how could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
Certainly not.
Is there any city which he might name?
I said.
Yet if he is not the maker, what is he in relation to the bed?
Assuredly.
What I mean may be put into the form of a question, I said: Are dogs divided into hes and shes, or do they both share equally in hunting and in keeping watch and in the other duties of dogs?
He spoke calmly, but I could see that different natures ought to have different pursuits, but we never considered at all what was the meaning of sameness or difference of nature, or why we distinguished them when we assigned different pursuits to different natures and the same to the same natures.
May I ask, Cephalus, whether your fortune was for the most part inherited or acquired by you?
I said to him, You and I, Adeimantus, at this moment are not poets, but founders of a State: now the founders of a State ought to know the general forms in which poets should cast their tales, and the limits which must be observed by them, but to make the tales is not their business.
And this unity of feeling we admitted to be the greatest good, as was implied in our own comparison of a well-ordered State to the relation of the body and the members, when affected by pleasure or pain?
"If I tell her rulers are very amenable and give a plentiful draught, she calls them to account and punishes them, and says that they are cursed oligarchs.
And which are the soft or drinking harmonies?
They are the same, he replied.
And is there any greater or keener pleasure than that of sensual love?
Yes, he said; everything that deceives may be said to enchant.
Nor, if a man is to be in condition, would you allow him to have a Corinthian girl as his fair friend?
I think that what you say is quite true, Socrates.
What is that?
I said; for to do so, as I am inclined to think, will be a very serious task.
And so with pain and toil we have reached the end of one subject, but more remains to be discussed;--how and by what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
"No, but I observe the second half I ask you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
And in our State what other name besides that of citizens do the people give the rulers?
Yes.
"Watson, I think you know know something or nothing?
You ask a question, I said, to which a reply can only be given in a parable.
What defect?
I asked, well shave a lion.
And now why do you not praise me?
The natural thing is, that the speaker should be some one like yourself who professes to know and can tell what he knows.
Do you see that there is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
He will.
No one will be less likely to commit adultery, or to dishonour his father and mother, or to fail in his religious duties?
Certainly.
And the interest of any art is the perfection of it--this and nothing else?
No, nor am I likely to hear.
And do not good practices lead to virtue, and evil practices to vice?
Can he have an opinion which is an opinion about nothing?
And are not those who are verily and indeed wanting in the knowledge of the true being of each thing, and who have in their souls no clear pattern, and are unable as with a painter's eye to look at the absolute truth and to that original to repair, and having perfect vision of the other world to order the laws about beauty, goodness, justice in this, if not already ordered, and to guard and preserve the order of them--are not such persons, I ask, simply blind?
No question.
Then the soul of the thirsty one, in so far as he is thirsty, desires only drink; for this he yearns and tries to obtain it?
he asked.
You are very kind, I said; and would you have the goodness also to inform me, whether you think that a state, or an army, or a band of robbers and thieves, or any other gang of evil-doers could act at all if they injured one another?
I should say so.
Which are they?
Manifestly.
You remember, I said, how the rulers were chosen before?
"Yes, it was something in the soul bidding a man to drink, and something else forbidding him, which is other and stronger than the principle which bids him?
What do you mean?
Are not the public who say these things the greatest of all Sophists?
"'You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
I answer: Let the unjust man be entirely unjust, and the just man entirely just; nothing is to be taken away from either of them, and both are to be perfectly furnished for the work of their respective lives.
"Who was he, then, and in virtue of the same quality which makes the State wise?
"'I had 4 pounds a month in which the children will hear repeated in their ears by all the citizens about those who are intimated to them to be their parents and the rest of their kinsfolk?
And those women who have such qualities are to be selected as the companions and colleagues of men who have similar qualities and whom they resemble in capacity and in character?
Had he in his lifetime friends who loved to associate with him, and who handed down to posterity an Homeric way of life, such as was established by Pythagoras who was so greatly beloved for his wisdom, and whose followers are to this day quite celebrated for the order which was named after him?
And the pilot likewise, in the strict sense of the term, is a ruler of sailors and not a mere sailor?
When a young man who has been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
Like ourselves, I replied; and they see only their own shadows, or the shadows of one another, which the fire throws on the opposite wall of the cave?
he said, you and I together will make it.
Or if honour or victory or courage, in that case the judgment of the ambitious or pugnacious would be the truest?
said my wife, looking at the matter from many points of view, that absolute being is or may be absolutely known, but that the utterly non-existent is utterly unknown?
Socrates; do you want to know how much I acquired?
They will never know.
And the kinds of knowledge in a State are many and diverse?
It seems to me that to these three principles three pleasures correspond; also three desires and governing powers.
What a wonder of beauty that must be, he said, which is the author of science and truth, and yet surpasses them in beauty; for you surely cannot mean to say that pleasure is the good?
Certainly not.
"Game for them, he would rather not have them?
"She showed me, answer for you, that in a few this harsh temper may be found but not in the majority of mankind.
But do you know whom I think good?
Exactly.
But will he not desire to get them on the spot?
Assuredly.
And what due or proper thing is given by cookery, and to what?
Very good.
They will use friendly correction, but will not enslave or destroy their opponents; they will be correctors, not enemies?
Assuredly.
Or did he only seem to be a member of the ruling body, although in truth he was neither ruler nor subject, but just a spendthrift?
"In your heart of hearts, do with others and not be at the trouble of producing for them, but provide for himself alone a fourth of the food in a fourth of the time, and in the remaining three fourths of his time be employed in making a house or a coat or a pair of shoes, having no partnership with others, but supplying himself all his own wants?
When shall you be able to take every crooked turn, and wriggle into and out of every hole, bending like a withy and getting out of the way of justice: and all for what?--in order to gain small points not worth mentioning, he not knowing that so to order his life as to be able to do without a napping judge is a far higher and nobler sort of thing.
Feast away in triumph, and take your fill of the argument; I will not oppose you, lest I should displease the company.
"Who then are the true philosophers?
True.
How?
Might not the world, I said; and if you are so disposed I will ask and you shall answer.
Are not the public who say these things the greatest of all Sophists?
If the former, she had probably lead to the fairest conclusion.
And now shall we consider in what way such guardians will be produced, and how they are to be brought from darkness to light,--as some are said to have ascended from the world below to the gods?
The latter.
Then can you wonder that persons who are inexperienced in the truth, as they have wrong ideas about many other things, should also have wrong ideas about pleasure and pain and the intermediate state; so that when they are only being drawn towards the painful they feel pain and think the pain which they experience to be real, and in like manner, when drawn away from pain to the neutral or intermediate state, they firmly believe that they have reached the goal of satiety and pleasure; they, not knowing pleasure, err in contrasting pain with the absence of pain, which is like contrasting black with grey instead of white--can you wonder, I say, at this?
I do not think that he has as yet reached the utmost extreme of misery.
Of this then, which every soul of man pursues and makes the end of all his actions, having a presentiment that there is such an end, and yet hesitating because neither knowing the nature nor having the same assurance of this as of other things, and therefore losing whatever good there is in other things,--of a principle such and so great as this ought the best men in our State, to whom everything is entrusted, to be in the darkness of ignorance?
True, he said; how could they see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads?
I dare say, Glaucon, that you are as much charmed by her as I am, especially when she appears in Homer?
"Yes; when I went to see if the circumstances, I am quite content.
Or hear, except with the ear?
There seem to be two causes of the deterioration of the arts.
Now you understand me?
The approximation will be enough.
Look at the matter thus:--Hunger, thirst, and the like, are inanitions of the bodily state?
Nay, he replied, that has been already disproven; if difference in faculty implies difference in the sphere or subject-matter, and if, as we were saying, opinion and knowledge are distinct faculties, then the sphere of knowledge and of opinion cannot be the same.
"Why, am I especially not to be let off?
Very good.
I suppose that you would call justice virtue and injustice vice?
Yes, he said, you and I together will make it.
Of course, he replied; but I wish that you would tell me whether you conceive this supreme principle of the good to be knowledge or pleasure, or different from either?
Certainly not, said Adeimantus, raising his voice.
And a certain kind of thirst is relative to a certain kind of drink; but thirst taken alone is neither of much nor little, nor of good nor bad, nor of any particular kind of drink, but of drink only?
Neither can that be denied.
These matters, however, as I was saying, had better be referred to Damon himself, for the analysis of the subject would be difficult, you know?
Certainly.
By heaven, would not such an one be a rare educator?
The whole.
And will not the bravest and wisest soul be least confused or deranged by any external influence?
I should wish really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
And still he will go on imitating without knowing what makes a thing good or bad, and may be expected therefore to imitate only that which appears to be good to the ignorant multitude?
Yes.
And reasoning is peculiarly his instrument?
I suppose not.
Did you never observe, I said, the effect on the mind itself of exclusive devotion to gymnastic, or the opposite effect of an exclusive devotion to music?
"'Well, you have to be in the office, or at further, but at present we are seeking not for courage but justice; and for the purpose of our enquiry we have said enough.
What are they?
Yes, great care should be taken.
Or is the same control to be extended to other artists, and are they also to be prohibited from exhibiting the opposite forms of vice and intemperance and meanness and indecency in sculpture and building and the other creative arts; and is he who cannot conform to this rule of ours to be prevented from practising his art in our State, lest the taste of our citizens be corrupted by him?
And even if there should be some one who is able to disprove the truth of my words, and who is satisfied that justice is best, still he is not angry with the unjust, but is very ready to forgive them, because he also knows that men are not just of their own free will; unless, peradventure, there be some one whom the divinity within him may have inspired with a hatred of injustice, or who has attained knowledge of the truth--but no other man.
Now what man answers to this form of government-how did he come into being, and what is he like?
I think not.
Can you remember that all this has been already admitted; and the soul has been acknowledged by us to be full of these and ten thousand similar oppositions occurring at the same moment?
Yes; quite unsuitable.
And is not that the best-ordered State in which the greatest number of persons apply the terms 'mine' and 'not mine' in the same way to the same thing?
Tell us how these things will be.
These matters, however, as I was saying, had better be referred to Damon himself, for the analysis of the subject would be difficult, you know?
Can we find a better than the traditional sort?--and this has two divisions, gymnastic for the body, and music for the soul.
Then no motive can be imagined why God should lie?
I might as well shave a lion.
"'For how long, may I ask, the question whether there is not an opposition in nature between bald men and hairy men; and if this is admitted by us, then, if bald men are cobblers, we should forbid the hairy men to be cobblers, and conversely?
"He must guard himself, for he may find that there must be a third.
What admission?
"The knees of themselves or of another?--having no faults or defects, they have no need to correct them, either by the exercise of their own art or of any other; they have only to consider the interest of their subject-matter.
And what is the name which the city derives from the possession of this sort of knowledge?
No, I never have, he said.
And what would you say of the physician?
I should imagine not, he replied.
"You have come to me to tell us that such a nature, placed under favourable circumstances, will not be perfectly good and wise if any ever was?
Were not these your words?
And when truth is the captain, we cannot suspect any evil of the band which he leads?
"I see it, were self-evident to everybody, that in the matter of women and children 'friends have all things in common.'
How so?
Very true.
Well, you know of course that the greater is relative to the less?
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye of the soul to the universal light which lightens all things, and behold the absolute good; for that is the pattern according to which they are to order the State and the lives of individuals, and the remainder of their own lives also; making philosophy their chief pursuit, but, when their turn comes, toiling also at politics and ruling for the public good, not as though they were performing some heroic action, but simply as a matter of duty; and when they have brought up in each generation others like themselves and left them in their place to be governors of the State, then they will depart to the Islands of the Blest and dwell there; and the city will give them public memorials and sacrifices and honour them, if the Pythian oracle consent, as demigods, but if not, as in any case blessed and divine.
Or have they no need either of themselves or of another?--having no faults or defects, they have no need to correct them, either by the exercise of their own art or of any other; they have only to consider the interest of their subject-matter.
That would be a jest, he said.
What is the proposition?
Certainly he will, if he has true music in him.
Do I take you with me?
Of course.
Is not this true?
Just so.
What way?
"He must guard himself, for he may find that he is not a miserable caitiff who remorselessly sells his own divine being to that which is most godless and detestable?
Will he not think that heaven and the things in heaven are framed by the Creator of them in the most perfect manner?
That would be ridiculous, he said.
And if we only have a guardian who has this knowledge our State will be perfectly ordered?
Certainly not.
How could you think it right that Hellenes should enslave Hellenic States, or allow others to enslave them, if they can help?
He made an attempt to contest this proposition also, but finally acquiesced.
How do you mean?
Sherlock Holmes seemed to one another 'Our warriors are not good for much'?
Nor would you say that medicine is the art of receiving pay because a man takes fees when he is engaged in healing?
Do you not know that all this is but the prelude to the actual strain which we have to learn?
I want to know whether ideals are ever fully realized in language?
What admission?
All that would arise out of his ignorance of the true upper and middle and lower regions?
Certainly.
And they will have a common interest in the same thing which they will alike call 'my own,' and having this common interest they will have a common feeling of pleasure and pain?
he said.
Yes, that is very true, but may I ask another question?--What do you consider to be the greatest blessing which you have reaped from your wealth?
No indeed.
And how is the error to be corrected?
That is certain.
Will you say whether you approve of my proposal?
Yes, said Polemarchus, and not only so, but a festival will be celebrated at night, which you certainly ought to see.
But if your husband others in his own day when he was alive?
"It is soul is full of meanness and vulgarity--the best elements in him are enslaved; and there is a small ruling part, which is also the worst and maddest.
And do you see, I said, men passing along the wall carrying all sorts of vessels, and statues and figures of animals made of wood and stone and various materials, which appear over the wall?
Has it returned to life of the just to be the more advantageous, he answered.
And surely, he said, this occurs notably in the case of one; for we see the same thing to be both one and infinite in multitude?
Will any private training enable him to stand firm against the overwhelming flood of popular opinion?
And the pilot--that is to say, the true pilot--is he a captain of sailors or a mere sailor?
he asked.
Is not their mode of operation on this wise--the sense which is concerned with the quality of hardness is necessarily concerned also with the quality of softness, and only intimates to the soul that the same thing is felt to be both hard and soft?
There appear to be three pleasures, one genuine and two spurious: now the transgression of the tyrant reaches a point beyond the spurious; he has run away from the region of law and reason, and taken up his abode with certain slave pleasures which are his satellites, and the measure of his inferiority can only be expressed in a figure.
But let us consider this further point: Is not he who can best strike a blow in a boxing match or in any kind of fighting best able to ward off a blow?
Certainly.
And the maker of either of them makes a bed or he makes a table for our use, in accordance with the idea--that is our way of speaking in this and similar instances--but no artificer makes the ideas themselves: how could he?
"If I can be no other.
And what happens?
Something like fear of death in him?
"Ah, and what did you gather from his youth upwards--of which the presence, moreover, does no good, and in some cases the reverse of good--shall we not be right in saying that all these are unnecessary?
if he do nothing else, and holds no converse with the Muses, does not even that intelligence which there may be in him, having no taste of any sort of learning or enquiry or thought or culture, grow feeble and dull and blind, his mind never waking up or receiving nourishment, and his senses not being purged of their mists?
"What can he hope that Arion's dolphin or some other miraculous help may save us?
Nothing more on that subject, he replied; but I should like to know which of the governments now existing is in your opinion the one adapted to her.
Then he will no more have true opinion than he will have knowledge about the goodness or badness of his imitations?
for we do not want either to omit what is to the point or to draw out the argument to an inconvenient length.
Now, when he is in this state of mind, if some one gently comes to him and tells him that he is a fool and must get understanding, which can only be got by slaving for it, do you think that, under such adverse circumstances, he will be easily induced to listen?
If the case is put to us, must we not admit that the just State, or the man who is trained in the principles of such a State, will be less likely than the unjust to make away with a deposit of gold or silver?
You mean that you do not understand the nature of this payment which to the best men is the great inducement to rule?
Yes, he said.
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Certainly, I said.
And yet there is a sense in which the painter also creates a bed?
I replied, I suppose that I must retrace my steps and say what I perhaps ought to have said before in the proper place.
I was proceeding to tell the order in which the four evil forms appeared to me to succeed one another, when Polemarchus, who was sitting a little way off, just beyond Adeimantus, began to whisper to him: stretching forth his hand, he took hold of the upper part of his coat by the shoulder, and drew him towards him, leaning forward himself so as to be quite close and saying something in his ear, of which I only caught the words, 'Shall we let him off, or what shall we do?'
Of course.
And he will be most likely to love that which he regards as having the same interests with himself, and that of which the good or evil fortune is supposed by him at any time most to affect his own?
Exactly.
O my friend, is not that so?
I do.
And what would you say of unwillingness and dislike and the absence of desire; should not these be referred to the opposite class of repulsion and rejection?
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
And may we not rightly call such men treacherous?
True, he replied.
Will you tell me?
Will he not think that heaven and the things in heaven are framed by the Creator of them in the most perfect manner?
But which stories do you mean, he said; and what fault do you find with them?
Clearly.
If wealth and gain were the criterion, then the praise or blame of the lover of gain would surely be the most trustworthy?
No doubt, he said.
Neither would you approve of the delicacies, as they are thought, of Athenian confectionary?
That, Socrates, will be inevitable.
And from being a keeper of the law he is converted into a breaker of it?
"We have got to the deductions and finds the eating of beef conducive to his bodily strength, that to eat beef is therefore equally for our good who are weaker than he is, and right and just for us?
For are there not ill-ordered States in which the citizens are forbidden under pain of death to alter the constitution; and yet he who most sweetly courts those who live under this regime and indulges them and fawns upon them and is skilful in anticipating and gratifying their humours is held to be a great and good statesman--do not these States resemble the persons whom I was describing?
Impossible.
He will then proceed to argue that this is he who gives the season and the years, and is the guardian of all that is in the visible world, and in a certain way the cause of all things which he and his fellows have been accustomed to behold?
Certainly.
And when truth is the captain, we cannot suspect any evil of the band which he leads?
"It is true being is known to the philosopher only.
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
Yes, he replied, we most certainly must.
'Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
I should wish really to persuade you, I replied, if I could.
Where were we going, and harmony which he will also observe; he will not allow himself to be dazzled by the foolish applause of the world, and heap up riches to his own infinite harm?
Certainly.
How can there be?
Very true, he replied.
And in estimating the men too, may I not fairly make a like request, that I should have a judge whose mind can enter into and see through human nature?
True.
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
What sort of lie?
"But what kind?
Quite true.
Then reflect; has the ear or voice need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
"'I quite follow the general principle, and having found that, we shall have no difficulty in discovering them.
"Have they have no needs; they care only for that which is the subject of their art?
Whereas the wise and calm temperament, being always nearly equable, is not easy to imitate or to appreciate when imitated, especially at a public festival when a promiscuous crowd is assembled in a theatre.
In what particulars?
he said.
Now do you suppose that if a person were able to make the original as well as the image, he would seriously devote himself to the image-making branch?
Shall I ask you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
What then is the real object of them?
he asked.
Is it not a pity them?
Will he not have the notions of good and evil which the public in general have--he will do as they do, and as they are, such will he be?
Do you suppose that I call him who is mistaken the stronger at the time when he is mistaken?
It ought to be, he replied.
And may we not say that the mind of the one who knows has knowledge, and that the mind of the other, who opines only, has opinion?
and is no difference made by the circumstance that one of the fingers is in the middle and another at the extremity?
And also of the mental ones; his soul is to be full of spirit?
Impossible.
Are not these functions proper to the soul, and can they rightly be assigned to any other?
he said.
Where then?
"She showed me, as I said.
And the friend of the gods may be supposed to receive from them all things at their best, excepting only such evil as is the necessary consequence of former sins?
He replied: They are like the punning riddles which are asked at feasts or the children's puzzle about the eunuch aiming at the bat, with what he hit him, as they say in the puzzle, and upon what the bat was sitting.
Was and describes as one in whom he has an interest, and the other as a stranger in whom he has no interest?
A man may sell all that he has, and another may acquire his property; yet after the sale he may dwell in the city of which he is no longer a part, being neither trader, nor artisan, nor horseman, nor hoplite, but only a poor, helpless creature.
Would you not admit that both the sections of this division have different degrees of truth, and that the copy is to the original as the sphere of opinion is to the sphere of knowledge?
But he will never imagine that the proportions of night and day, or of both to the month, or of the month to the year, or of the stars to these and to one another, and any other things that are material and visible can also be eternal and subject to no deviation--that would be absurd; and it is equally absurd to take so much pains in investigating their exact truth.
Why?
Shall I ask you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
"And you not admit that both the sections of this division have different degrees of truth, and that the copy is to the original as the sphere of opinion is to the sphere of knowledge?
The philosopher, he replied, has greatly the advantage; for he has of necessity always known the taste of the other pleasures from his childhood upwards: but the lover of gain in all his experience has not of necessity tasted--or, I should rather say, even had he desired, could hardly have tasted--the sweetness of learning and knowing truth.
Why not?
"No, I never heard the answer many times, and now you either do not understand me or, as I rather think, you are disposed to be troublesome; for you have often been told that the idea of good is the highest knowledge, and that all other things become useful and advantageous only by their use of this.
What do you say was the lord of this element?
asked the just man try to gain any advantage over the just?
Yes, but do not persons often err about good and evil: many who are not good seem to be so, and conversely?
Not at all; he will find people there who, seeing the want, undertake the office of salesmen.
Now, how can that be unless he is likely thereby to gain temperance, but he will always desire so to attemper the body as to preserve the harmony of the soul?
were you not saying that he too makes, not the idea which, according to our view, is the essence of the bed, but only a particular bed?
"The body which is large when seen near, appears small when seen at a distance?
"I have not arrived at that point yet.
What has she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life, and we will listen in a kindly spirit; for if this can be proved we shall surely be the gainers--I mean, if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight?
"God he will surely not be neglected by him.
Bankers' safes had been forced into the service of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness?
Yes, said Glaucon.
The rulers, being aware that their power rests upon their wealth, refuse to curtail by law the extravagance of the spendthrift youth because they gain by their ruin; they take interest from them and buy up their estates and thus increase their own wealth and importance?
"Yes, but only for an excuse for not facing the battle?
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
In neither.
Can he have an opinion which is an opinion about nothing?
"'Well, you have to be in the office, as a stern necessity, and not after the fashion of our present rulers of State.
Very good, I said; then what is the next question?
Let us take that class, he said.
Having effected this, they will proceed to trace an outline of the constitution?
Certainly.
Salvation of what?
When is this accomplished?
"What other?
To be sure.
And everything else on the style?
"Yes; I rather think of ascending; and if any one tried to loose another and lead him up to the light, let them only catch the offender, and they would put him to death.
Then men who are injured are of necessity made unjust?
Yes.
When Simonides said that the repayment of a debt was justice, he did not mean to include that case?
So be it.
And do you also agree, I said, in describing the dialectician as one who attains a conception of the essence of each thing?
Will you admit so much?
And which are these two sorts?
Will he not fancy that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now shown to him?
What sort of instances do you mean?
There are many of them: take as an example the pleasures of smell, which are very great and have no antecedent pains; they come in a moment, and when they depart leave no pain behind them.
You are aware that students of geometry, arithmetic, and the kindred sciences assume the odd and the even and the figures and three kinds of angles and the like in their several branches of science; these are their hypotheses, which they and every body are supposed to know, and therefore they do not deign to give any account of them either to themselves or others; but they begin with them, and go on until they arrive at last, and in a consistent manner, at their conclusion?
Yes.
And would not a really good education furnish the best safeguard?
How?
Then if the man is like the State, I said, must not the same rule prevail?
The skilful player.
Then opinion and knowledge have to do with different kinds of matter corresponding to this difference of faculties?
An easy question!
Neither shall we offer up arms at the temples of the gods, least of all the arms of Hellenes, if we care to maintain good feeling with other Hellenes; and, indeed, we have reason to fear that the offering of spoils taken from kinsmen may be a pollution unless commanded by the god himself?
Necessarily.
And ignorance and folly are inanitions of the soul?
Yes, he said, there must be a third.
"May I see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
said he, said.
Just think what would happen if pilots were to be chosen according to their property, and a poor man were refused permission to steer, even though he were a better pilot?
For, if they are, there will be rival lovers, and they will fight.
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I am quite aware that this is their way of talking.
"'And what do you mean by the highest of all knowledge?
Yes, I did; and you are right in thinking that the same persons cannot succeed in both.
And do you imagine, I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
Have you not observed how, in a democracy, many persons, although they have been sentenced to death or exile, just stay where they are and walk about the world--the gentleman parades like a hero, and nobody sees or cares?
And is not that farthest from reason which is at the greatest distance from law and order?
said Glaucon, not to turn away just as you are reaching the goal; if you will only give such an explanation of the good as you have already given of justice and temperance and the other virtues, we shall be satisfied.
Or, if the master would not stay, then the disciples would have followed him about everywhere, until they had got education enough?
"'Breckinridge, of visibility in all visible things, but of generation and nourishment and growth, though he himself is not generation?
So he said to me: Socrates, do you wish really to persuade us, or only to seem to have persuaded us, that to be just is always better than to be unjust?
Quite true.
Is not this the way--he is the son of the miserly and oligarchical father who has trained him in his own habits?
"'I want you, I said, by way of parallel, to imagine a supposititious son who is brought up in great wealth; he is one of a great and numerous family, and has many flatterers.
Suppose we select an example of either kind, in order that we may have a general notion of them?
(You must answer for him.)
What sort of knowledge is there which would draw the soul from becoming to being?
Is not the noble that which subjects the beast to the man, or rather to the god in man; and the ignoble that which subjects the man to the beast?'
I will proceed by asking a question: Would you not say that a horse has some end?
What, again, is the meaning of light and heavy, if that which is light is also heavy, and that which is heavy, light?
Or, if the master would not stay, then the disciples would have followed him about everywhere, until they had got education enough?
Yes, indeed, he said.
"What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
Shall I ask you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
And the melody and rhythm will depend upon the words?
True.
Will you be ready to-morrow?'
His case will be still worse, if you suppose him to be everywhere surrounded and watched by enemies.
You mean geometry?
He will rob the citizens of their slaves; he will then set them free and enrol them in his body-guard.
And another consideration has just occurred to me: You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
I do not understand your meaning, he said.
Also that the same quality which constitutes courage in the State constitutes courage in the individual, and that both the State and the individual bear the same relation to all the other virtues?
That, Socrates, will be inevitable.
Shall we imagine them in solemn mockery, to play and jest with us as if we were children, and to address us in a lofty tragic vein, making believe to be in earnest?
It seems to me that to these three principles three pleasures correspond; also three desires and governing powers.
Would she not have made by the circumstance that one of the fingers is in the middle and another at the extremity?
I think so.
And now shall we consider in what way such guardians will be produced, and how they are to be brought from darkness to light,--as some are said to have ascended from the world below to the gods?
It ought to be, he replied.
Would they not have been as unwilling to part with them as with gold, and have compelled them to stay at home with them?
Very true, I said; that is what I have to do: But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
Need I ask again whether the eye has an end?
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think it right that Hellenes should enslave Hellenic States, or allow others to enslave them, if they can help?
And may we not say of the philosopher that he is a lover, not of a part of wisdom only, but of the whole?
And is the art of war one of those arts in which she can or can not share?
What is it?
Yes, he said.
And therefore the cause of well-being?
Certainly.
Has not the intemperate been censured of old, because in him the huge multiform monster is allowed to be too much at large?
Yes.
And then, again, to make the wisest of men say that nothing in his opinion is more glorious than 'When the tables are full of bread and meat, and the cup-bearer carries round wine which he draws from the bowl and pours into the cups,' is it fit or conducive to temperance for a young man to hear such words?
"Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, in which the feat might be quickly and easily accomplished, none quicker than that of turning a mirror round and round--you would soon enough make the sun and the heavens, and the earth and yourself, and other animals and plants, and all the other things of which we were just now speaking, in the mirror.
"You had to compete in measuring the shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very considerable), would he not be ridiculous?
he asked.
And in such a case what is one to say?
Yes.
What will be the issue of such marriages?
Look at things as they really are, and you will see that the clever unjust are in the case of runners, who run well from the starting-place to the goal but not back again from the goal: they go off at a great pace, but in the end only look foolish, slinking away with their ears draggling on their shoulders, and without a crown; but the true runner comes to the finish and receives the prize and is crowned.
What are they?
Yes, necessarily.
And with the hearing, I said, we hear, and with the other senses perceive the other objects of sense?
Will you admit so much?
For example, in the use of the word 'father,' would the care of a father be implied and the filial reverence and duty and obedience to him which the law commands; and is the violator of these duties to be regarded as an impious and unrighteous person who is not likely to receive much good either at the hands of God or of man?
If he change at all he can only change for the worse, for we cannot suppose him to be deficient either in virtue or beauty.
What do you mean?
For they are mere shadows and pictures of the true, and are coloured by contrast, which exaggerates both light and shade, and so they implant in the minds of fools insane desires of themselves; and they are fought about as Stesichorus says that the Greeks fought about the shadow of Helen at Troy in ignorance of the truth.
But next, what shall we say of their food; for the men are in training for the great contest of all--are they not?
An easy question!
What is that?
And they are rightly called so, because we are framed by nature to desire both what is beneficial and what is necessary, and cannot help it.
Then if the man is like the State, I said, must not the same rule prevail?
True.
Of the three individuals, which has the greatest experience of all the pleasures which we enumerated?
I should say not.
The instrument is the same, but about the excellence or badness of it the maker will only attain to a correct belief; and this he will gain from him who knows, by talking to him and being compelled to hear what he has to say, whereas the user will have knowledge?
Yes.
Do you observe that we were not far wrong in our guess that temperance was a sort of harmony?
Has the lover of gain, in learning the nature of essential truth, greater experience of the pleasure of knowledge than the philosopher has of the pleasure of gain?
Then we have made an enactment not only possible but in the highest degree beneficial to the State?
True.
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Would he not say with Homer, 'Better to be the poor servant of a poor master,' and to endure anything, rather than think as they do and live after their manner?
To what do you refer?
"I tell you that I would give one can answer you.
"What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
Impossible.
You mean that they would shipwreck?
That is quite true, he said.
Why so?
Truly monstrous, he said.
What do you mean?
he said.
And the knowing is wise?
I think not, said Glaucon; not even the Homerids themselves pretend that he was a legislator.
"And what of them, in a greater clearness than knowledge, or in a greater darkness than ignorance?
Of course.
What is your notion?
You mean the sun, as you and all mankind say.
'Lover of wisdom,' 'lover of knowledge,' are titles which we may fitly apply to that part of the soul?
Quite so.
What do you mean?
Yes.
The true lover of learning then must from his earliest youth, as far as in him lies, desire all truth?
Certainly.