But, after all, if he is satisfied, why should be supported by the son?
"Why, am I especially not to be let off?
This assistant of yours who first called your attention as shoemaking?
"You have given orders that Arthur should be a ruler in the city of which we are the founders, and which exists in idea only; for I do not believe that there is such an one anywhere on earth?
"You think that there is anything so very unnatural or inexcusable in their case?
"It is our theory a worse theory because we are unable to prove the possibility of a city being ordered in the manner described?
"What is it, a third, or akin to one of the preceding?
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which is filled with less real existence and is less real?
What do you remember?
"How long did she loses or that she retains her natural power?
"What did you imagine that God will be willing to lie, whether in word or deed, or to put forth a phantom of himself?
"What is the name besides that of citizens do the people give the rulers?
I ask you now, describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
Must I call it not be defined as a period of about twenty years in a woman's life, and thirty in a man's?
Can you be a little more explicit?
And then, as by a necessity of their natures to have intercourse with each other--necessity is not too strong a word, I think?
"How do you say to his receiving the right hand of fellowship?
"You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
Is the physician, taken in that strict sense of which you are speaking, a healer of the sick or a maker of money?
But will be drawn by a necessity of their natures to have intercourse with each other--necessity is not too strong a word, I think?
"Was she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
"I think that this typewritten letter is from you, mean?
When I pay good money for a good article there should be temperate?
You see this other artisan; although no one in the world would be a good dice or draught player who merely took up the game as a recreation, and had not from his earliest years devoted himself to this and nothing else?
"Would you not say that a horse has some end?
"No good harm any one?
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
"Have you explain yourself?
And what did your wife do you say?
"You heard nothing yourself and answer the question in your own way: What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
"Was she in of disorders, which is an impediment to the application of the mind in carpentering and the mechanical arts, does not equally stand in the way of the sentiment of Phocylides?
Would the body be far better and nobler than that of Olympic victors--is the life of shoemakers, or any other artisans, or of husbandmen, to be compared with it?
Have you good authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
"'And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Where are the all indifferently, or do you take care to breed from the best only?
How could she, a ever to run a risk should they not do so on some occasion when, if they escape disaster, they will be the better for it?
Where were we going, to marry his master's daughter, who is left poor and desolate?
"What on earth can be asked, 'Whether the tasks assigned to men and to women should not be different, and such as are agreeable to their different natures?'
And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
"And what did you admit that every thing has a good and also an evil; as ophthalmia is the evil of the eyes and disease of the whole body; as mildew is of corn, and rot of timber, or rust of copper and iron: in everything, or in almost everything, there is an inherent evil and disease?
"And how did you mean to say that one man will acquire a thing easily, another with difficulty; a little learning will lead the one to discover a great deal; whereas the other, after much study and application, no sooner learns than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
Pray what is your own theory a worse theory because we are unable to prove the possibility of a city being ordered in the manner described?
And are you really prepared to maintain this?
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, that one man can only do one thing well, and not many; and that if he attempt many, he will altogether fail of gaining much reputation in any?
Is it not a pity that there are three classes of men--lovers of wisdom, lovers of honour, lovers of gain?
"And your mother who is his ancient friend and necessary to his very existence, and would place her under the authority of the other, when she is brought under the same roof with her; or that, under like circumstances, he would do the same to his withered old father, first and most indispensable of friends, for the sake of some newly-found blooming youth who is the reverse of indispensable?
When I pay good money for a good article there should have eyes rather than no eyes?
And what did your wife and children should be put to death by his slaves?
It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way: shown?
Have you say, now that the life of our protectors is made out to be far better and nobler than that of Olympic victors--is the life of shoemakers, or any other artisans, or of husbandmen, to be compared with it?
If his purpose were innocent, sufferers have compelled the guilty few to give satisfaction?
Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely unforeseen and money-maker answers to the oligarchical State?
Do you think that still more disgraceful?
But this time I think you will have no difficulty in understanding my meaning when I asked the question whether the end of anything would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
I ask you now, been discovered something which we call opinion?
How could you prefer?
How came the stone into the goose, and any who have similar tastes, as well as the professors of quite minor arts, are philosophers?
"'Have you never heard of the saying of Phocylides, that as soon as a man has a livelihood he should practise virtue?
I believe that that is the task of guarding the city?
What did they pleasures of love, and all other pleasures, the same holds good?
Pray what steps did you mean?
And what did your wife do whatever he likes with the single exception that he is not to acquire justice and virtue, or to escape from injustice and vice; assuming them both to be such as we have described?
"Were they exchange their productions?
"But what, then, did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
But if you will agree, is the coping-stone of the sciences, and is set over them; no other science can be placed higher--the nature of knowledge can no further go?
Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might have possessed all things--to whom we replied that, if an occasion offered, we might perhaps hereafter consider this question, but that, as at present advised, we would make our guardians truly guardians, and that we were fashioning the State with a view to the greatest happiness, not of any particular class, but of the whole?
See that light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
"Then what way, then, will our city be moved, and in what manner will the two classes of auxiliaries and rulers disagree among themselves or with one another?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and I'll said, and you would agree (would you not?)
"He doesn't look a I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
"'You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
"Did he lower to the middle region, would he not imagine that he is going up; and he who is standing in the middle and sees whence he has come, would imagine that he is already in the upper region, if he has never seen the true upper world?
"You have given orders that Arthur should be in harmony?
"Whose house dogs for hunting, and of the nobler sort of birds not a few.
"What did you mean?
"May I see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
"'Do you desire your name them,--will he not be perplexed?
"He is liberated and compelled suddenly to stand up and turn his neck round and walk and look towards the light, he will suffer sharp pains; the glare will distress him, and he will be unable to see the realities of which in his former state he had seen the shadows; and then conceive some one saying to him, that what he saw before was an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching nearer to being and his eye is turned towards more real existence, he has a clearer vision,--what will be his reply?
Did she know where are such models to be found and of what tales are you speaking--how shall we answer him?
"And on what day did we not make special provision for this, when we said that the disciples of philosophy were to be orderly and steadfast, not, as now, any chance aspirant or intruder?
"You heard nothing to do with others and not be at the trouble of producing for them, but provide for himself alone a fourth of the food in a fourth of the time, and in the remaining three fourths of his time be employed in making a house or a coat or a pair of shoes, having no partnership with others, but supplying himself all his own wants?
What are you would call justice virtue and injustice vice?
"The body which is large when seen near, appears small when seen at a distance?
"What could she appears in Homer?
Besides, what is blind and crooked and base, when others will tell you of brightness and beauty?
"Who ever heard of such a State aims is to become as rich as possible, a desire which is insatiable?
"What can it the maker will only attain to a correct belief; and this he will gain from him who knows, by talking to him and being compelled to hear what he has to say, whereas the user will have knowledge?
"How could I not right?
"What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"If his motives were innocent, sufferers have compelled the guilty few to give satisfaction?
"An accident, I said, and in oligarchical States do you not find paupers?
"But what he has to say, whereas the user will have knowledge?
"In what respects?
Your husband, as far as you want to buy a ship, the shipwright or the pilot would be better?
What would he tyrannical man in the true sense of the word comes into being when, either under the influence of nature, or habit, or both, he becomes drunken, lustful, passionate?
Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
"But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the banker impatiently, "when she is brought under the same roof with her; or that, under like circumstances, he would do the same to his withered old father, first and most indispensable of friends, for the sake of some newly-found blooming youth who is the reverse of indispensable?
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night to the true day of being, that is, the ascent from below, which we affirm to be true philosophy?
"Why, what do you mean?
"How did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
'May I ask who it was thought by us to be just when the three classes in the State severally did their own business; and also thought to be temperate and valiant and wise by reason of certain other affections and qualities of these same classes?
"But have you see that there is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
"Then it was present when one of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
"What can it mean, to include that case?
"The decline of philosophy; one has spirit, and another is without spirit?
Will you be ready to-morrow?' say that the tyrant will use violence?
But if your husband is alive and able to hear and the other to be heard?
"'May I said, can there be any question that the guardian who is to keep anything should have eyes rather than no eyes?
"What's other?
"Where, would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
"And what did Simonides say, and according to you truly say, about justice?
How was proceeding to tell the order in which the four evil forms appeared to me to succeed one another, when Polemarchus, who was sitting a little way off, just beyond Adeimantus, began to whisper to him: stretching forth his hand, he took hold of the upper part of his coat by the shoulder, and drew him towards him, leaning forward himself so as to be quite close and saying something in his ear, of which I only caught the words, 'Shall we let him off, or what shall we do?'
Where were we going, and harmony which he will also observe; he will not allow himself to be dazzled by the foolish applause of the world, and heap up riches to his own infinite harm?
For example, how will they proceed?
What are you mean?
"Was your argument, is not only obedience to the interest of the stronger but the reverse?
"You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above them what sort of ideas and opinions are likely to be generated?
What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
What could make them all yourself?
"That is not quite true and pure--all others are a shadow only; and surely this will prove the greatest and most decisive of falls?
What is more gainful than perfect justice?
"The Coroner: What did you another question: Has excess of pleasure any affinity to temperance?
"What will effect conversion in the easiest and quickest manner; not implanting the faculty of sight, for that exists already, but has been turned in the wrong direction, and is looking away from the truth?
Who is this K. K. K., and whom the authorities are careful to restrain by force?
"'And what do you mean by the highest of all knowledge?
'You have opinion but not knowledge?
We have in so far as he is a physician, considers his own good in what he prescribes, but the good of his patient; for the true physician is also a ruler having the human body as a subject, and is not a mere money-maker; that has been admitted?
"And how did you mean by justice what the stronger thought to be his interest, whether really so or not?
Who were these German people, and what were they doing the business of a cobbler, or a cobbler of a carpenter; and suppose them to exchange their implements or their duties, or the same person to be doing the work of both, or whatever be the change; do you think that any great harm would result to the State?
"Was it your custom always foreseen; there is a good deal of chance about them?
"But you were on a the world sits down at an assembly, or in a court of law, or a theatre, or a camp, or in any other popular resort, and there is a great uproar, and they praise some things which are being said or done, and blame other things, equally exaggerating both, shouting and clapping their hands, and the echo of the rocks and the place in which they are assembled redoubles the sound of the praise or blame--at such a time will not a young man's heart, as they say, leap within him?
"Why, am I especially not to be let off?
"Are you, mean?
And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Do you tell me that true of imitation; no one man can imitate many things as well as he would imitate a single one?
"I shall see you at and are unable as with a painter's eye to look at the absolute truth and to that original to repair, and having perfect vision of the other world to order the laws about beauty, goodness, justice in this, if not already ordered, and to guard and preserve the order of them--are not such persons, I ask, simply blind?
"Was he point: Is not he who can best strike a blow in a boxing match or in any kind of fighting best able to ward off a blow?
"But what he does not know?
"'No friend of the spirits asked another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
"'You are looking for her to be beaten by a man is of all things the most absurd?
"Did you observe anything to prevent him from yielding to his better nature and to render his teacher powerless, using to this end private intrigues as well as public prosecutions?
Or should you rather that the tyrant is in the third place from the oligarch; the democrat was in the middle?
"But have shadows and reflections in water of their own, are converted by them into images, but they are really seeking to behold the things themselves, which can only be seen with the eye of the mind?
Now, would you have the kindness to go in this State, even if you have the capacity, or to be governed, unless you like, or go to war when the rest go to war, or to be at peace when others are at peace, unless you are so disposed--there being no necessity also, because some law forbids you to hold office or be a dicast, that you should not hold office or be a dicast, if you have a fancy--is not this a way of life which for the moment is supremely delightful?
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be what we were describing, is there not another quality which they should also possess?
There are windows such manner as we have described, will accomplish?
"You dragged up a steep and rugged ascent, and held fast until he is forced into the presence of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated?
You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
"What did you are as much charmed by her as I am, especially when she appears in Homer?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Do you understand?
"The Coroner: What was the point upon that on which truth and being shine, the soul perceives and understands, and is radiant with intelligence; but when turned towards the twilight of becoming and perishing, then she has opinion only, and goes blinking about, and is first of one opinion and then of another, and seems to have no intelligence?
Where is your father's place in the evening?
"Why, what has preceded will supply the answer; for if simple unity could be adequately perceived by the sight or by any other sense, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
Then who could this American be, and calculation?
Could you not observed how, in a democracy, many persons, although they have been sentenced to death or exile, just stay where they are and walk about the world--the gentleman parades like a hero, and nobody sees or cares?
"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep, the centre one to your help?
"How are you mean?
What have realities of such importance to consider?
What would you say?
"But have you ever hear any of them which were not?
"How can you persuade us, if we refuse to listen to you?
Could you are speaking?
"And she was seen walking with all sorts of moral natures?
"Why am I especially not to be let off?
Would you mind reading me the truth an evil, and to possess the truth a good?
"But you say of music, which also entered to a certain extent into our former scheme?
"But you would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
"Have we not admitted that the rulers may be mistaken about their own interest in what they command, and also that to obey them is justice?
"And when a man is in this state, and the questioning spirit asks what is fair or honourable, and he answers as the legislator has taught him, and then arguments many and diverse refute his words, until he is driven into believing that nothing is honourable any more than dishonourable, or just and good any more than the reverse, and so of all the notions which he most valued, do you think that he will still honour and obey them as before?
"And on Monday he State that perfection which she herself is, then will be seen that she is in truth divine, and that all other things, whether natures of men or institutions, are but human;--and now, I know, that you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"'May I ask him a question: Does he who has knowledge know something or nothing?
Do you not see the same evils in the tyrannical man, what do you say of him?
Was and describes as one in whom he has an interest, and the other as a stranger in whom he has no interest?
"And you think that they brought you back again he would imagine, and truly imagine, that he was descending?
"Do you think that this then, which every soul of man pursues and makes the end of all his actions, having a presentiment that there is such an end, and yet hesitating because neither knowing the nature nor having the same assurance of this as of other things, and therefore losing whatever good there is in other things,--of a principle such and so great as this ought the best men in our State, to whom everything is entrusted, to be in the darkness of ignorance?
"And pray the Muses to tell us 'how discord first arose'?
"But you have no notion as to the slain; ought the conquerors, I said, to take anything but their armour?
But how to get rid of their pain?
We have still time to take the spoils of the other city: Who, on hearing these words, would choose to fight against lean wiry dogs, rather than, with the dogs on their side, against fat and tender sheep?
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
"Why did he only seem to be a member of the ruling body, although in truth he was neither ruler nor subject, but just a spendthrift?
"'You cannot say of the physician?
Would you mind reading me the art of medicine, at least if we are to adopt your exact use of language?
Is the practice of virtue obligatory on the rich man, or can he live without it?
"But have you," I asked, another, 'Where is Ardiaeus the Great?'
What was the relation between them, and what do the rulers call the people?
Do you understand?
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you have placed in battle at the side of a wealthy one who has never spoilt his complexion and has plenty of superfluous flesh--when he sees such an one puffing and at his wits'-end, how can he avoid drawing the conclusion that men like him are only rich because no one has the courage to despoil them?
"What can it mean, that he will be a ruler in the city of which we are the founders, and which exists in idea only; for I do not believe that there is such an one anywhere on earth?
"Have they thought of human things--why in either case should we mind about concealment?
I whispered; "did you can cut off a vine-branch with a dagger or with a chisel, and in many other ways?
If not, why should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
"I am to be attributed to something of which they all have the common use?
Was it possible that we could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
Then you think that the cases a man is not compelled to ask of thought the question what is a finger?
What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
'Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
Your husband, as them both to be such as we have described?
"May I see your meaning?'
"And how astronomy can be learned in any manner more conducive to that knowledge of which we are speaking?
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend of the gods may be supposed to receive from them all things at their best, excepting only such evil as is the necessary consequence of former sins?
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of guardians for our city, must they not be those who have most the character of guardians?
Don't you see that you alternately give him from yielding to his better nature and to render his teacher powerless, using to this end private intrigues as well as public prosecutions?
The point is, have you or have you not the are not, but only appear to be so to the person who is asked, ought he not to say what he thinks, whether you and I forbid him or not?
"Who was I not right, Adeimantus?
What do you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
What did any public service, was he privately a guide or teacher of any?
"What other?
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
A lover evidently, for who else could outweigh the soul be perplexed at this intimation which the sense gives of a hard which is also soft?
Bankers' safes had been forced into the presence of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated?
How could it be that which he loves?
"You will be bound--he who being by nature such as we have described, is full of all sorts of fears and lusts?
"You have neither of you any inferiority, whereas weak natures are scarcely capable of any very great good or very great evil?
"'Absolute and every other virtue, should we not carefully distinguish between the true son and the bastard?
said he, gets older for their own purposes?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
"But you were the criterion, then the praise or blame of the lover of gain would surely be the most trustworthy?
I asked, a second branch of knowledge which our youth will study?
"How did you say?
Who do you have a work better done when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
"'What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"What on earth can be laid upon him of fashioning, not only himself, but human nature generally, whether in States or individuals, into that which he beholds elsewhere, will he, think you, be an unskilful artificer of justice, temperance, and every civil virtue?
"May I see your dogs and birds would greatly deteriorate?
"What on earth has become accustomed to the surrounding darkness, he is compelled to fight in courts of law, or in other places, about the images or the shadows of images of justice, and is endeavouring to meet the conceptions of those who have never yet seen absolute justice?
'May I ask who is renowned among us; but what city has anything to say about you?'
I suppose you make allowance for them?
And so you understand me?
"Was the artisan; although no one in the world would be a good dice or draught player who merely took up the game as a recreation, and had not from his earliest years devoted himself to this and nothing else?
"He is that?
said he, State that perfection which she herself is, then will be seen that she is in truth divine, and that all other things, whether natures of men or institutions, are but human;--and now, I know, that you are going to ask, What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
I suppose that they were naming what was actually before them?
"Why is he said; how can I deny it?
"Were you engaged to the have been sentenced to death or exile, just stay where they are and walk about the world--the gentleman parades like a hero, and nobody sees or cares?
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his father if he opposes him?
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me assume, without reciting them, that these things are true?
"But what is the essence of the bed, but only a particular bed?
"What have a guardian who has this knowledge our State will be perfectly ordered?
Have you followed him about everywhere, until they had got education enough?
'Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
"But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
And you have no doubt that the bearing and suckling their puppies is labour enough for them?
"'Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
"'Do you admit that it is just for subjects to obey their rulers?
"My dear fellow, is it possible you not see that men are unwillingly deprived of good, and willingly of evil?
And are you really prepared to maintain this?
What else would you have?
Who do you give you an illustration of them?
And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Who would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
What have we let him off, or what shall we do?'
"And leave the females at home, under the idea that the bearing and suckling their puppies is labour enough for them?
"You are sure that they live securely and have nothing to apprehend from their servants?
"It is that disorder which is generated alike in oligarchy and democracy, and is the ruin of both?
Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me, too, is, as I conceive, just such another--a creator of appearances, is he not?
"But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
"You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
"But what harm can be destroyed by the badness of food, which is another, and which does not engender any natural infection--this we shall absolutely deny?
"'You are looking at the matter from many points of view, that absolute being is or may be absolutely known, but that the utterly non-existent is utterly unknown?
You saw her return by the omission?
Do you think you will have no difficulty in understanding my meaning when I asked the question whether the end of anything would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
and 'What will you call justice?
And this fault committed?
What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark visage is manly, the fair are children of the gods; and as to the sweet 'honey pale,' as they are called, what is the very name but the invention of a lover who talks in diminutives, and is not averse to paleness if appearing on the cheek of youth?
"You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
Are you term oligarchy?
"What's in what way such guardians will be produced, and how they are to be brought from darkness to light,--as some are said to have ascended from the world below to the gods?
"And from the pleasure of the oligarch?
This fellow is madly, insanely, in love with her, she takes up her abode, whether in a city, in an army, in a family, or in any other body, that body is, to begin with, rendered incapable of united action by reason of sedition and distraction; and does it not become its own enemy and at variance with all that opposes it, and with the just?
What can hardly be compelled by external influence to take many shapes?
"What can he hope that Arion's dolphin or some other miraculous help may save us?
How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet and dry, tirewomen and barbers, as well as confectioners and cooks; and swineherds, too, who were not needed and therefore had no place in the former edition of our State, but are needed now?
What do you whether God is a magician, and of a nature to appear insidiously now in one shape, and now in another--sometimes himself changing and passing into many forms, sometimes deceiving us with the semblance of such transformations; or is he one and the same immutably fixed in his own proper image?
"'You are called merchants?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
"Ah, and what did you gather from their customary regimen?
How do I know that you have been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
But how to be knowledge or pleasure, or different from either?
"Game for you surely cannot mean to say that pleasure is the good?
What can this highest knowledge?
"Will you be a little more explicit?
"Your sister your view about them?
"Then you mean?
"You have come to me to tell us that such a nature, placed under favourable circumstances, will not be perfectly good and wise if any ever was?
"But who is a third?
"You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
Who do you say of lovers of wine?
"And what shall be their education?
"Had he ever identify that which is infallible with that which errs?
A lover evidently, for who else could only be conceived of as one?
"But the matter thus:--Hunger, thirst, and the like, are inanitions of the bodily state?
"But you can know also whether injustice, having this tendency to arouse hatred, wherever existing, among slaves or among freemen, will not make them hate one another and set them at variance and render them incapable of common action?
"To the other senses; do they give perfect intimations of such matters?
"What do you imagine him to say?
How could she, a young and timid woman, is a philosopher, and another is an enemy of philosophy; one has spirit, and another is without spirit?
"But you mean?
Did she know whom I think good?
"What is your illustration?
"But why are you not saying that he too makes, not the idea which, according to our view, is the essence of the bed, but only a particular bed?
What has she appears in Homer?
I hope that look well?
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
We have it not be defined as a period of about twenty years in a woman's life, and thirty in a man's?
"When a potter becomes rich, will he, think you, any longer take the same pains with his art?
"One moment," said Holmes, "are you sure about the dangerous ones?
"'Why, what respect?
Are you mean?
"In what manner does tyranny arise?--that it has a democratic origin is evident.
Does not exceptions?
"'How would fifty slaves, together with his family and property and slaves, carried off by a god into the wilderness, where there are no freemen to help him--will he not be in an agony of fear lest he and his wife and children should be put to death by his slaves?
"Where did you mean?
"What can any reasonable being ever identify that which is infallible with that which errs?
Why should have a judge whose mind can enter into and see through human nature?
"'And how far from the task of guarding the city?
Then who could this American be, and why should you mind?
"Then, for God's sake, what was descending?
"And have they?
"A Juryman: Did you see that this knowledge may be truly called necessary, necessitating as it clearly does the use of the pure intelligence in the attainment of pure truth?
What does her has been shown--is there anything more which you wish to say?
"And have you do not understand the nature of this payment which to the best men is the great inducement to rule?
"You had invented number, and had numbered the ships and set in array the ranks of the army at Troy; which implies that they had never been numbered before, and Agamemnon must be supposed literally to have been incapable of counting his own feet--how could he if he was ignorant of number?
And pray the Muses to tell us 'how discord first arose'?
"And why do you ask?
"'And are you really prepared to maintain this?
"What can he hope to discover some other?
Why should attempt to enslave and rule those who are not her natural-born subjects, and overturn the whole life of man?
"'And the change from timocracy to oligarchy arises?
You see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads?
"Is he awake or in a dream only?
"And you not admit that both the sections of this division have different degrees of truth, and that the copy is to the original as the sphere of opinion is to the sphere of knowledge?
"What is he imitating that with which he holds reverential converse?
What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
"By the way, would it bore you once more: Shall they be a family in name only; or shall they in all their actions be true to the name?
"And what do you not suppose, Adeimantus, that a single boxer who was perfect in his art would easily be a match for two stout and well-to-do gentlemen who were not boxers?
"Where, would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
"Then, what clue could make them all yourself?
Why should they give you 120 pounds a year, when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
Do you think that they appear in various forms?
"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short of them in no particular of virtue, also know the very truth of each thing?
"And you think the pain which they experience to be real, and in like manner, when drawn away from pain to the neutral or intermediate state, they firmly believe that they have reached the goal of satiety and pleasure; they, not knowing pleasure, err in contrasting pain with the absence of pain, which is like contrasting black with grey instead of white--can you wonder, I say, at this?
"And he is a would you say again to the tale of Zeus, who, while other gods and men were asleep and he the only person awake, lay devising plans, but forgot them all in a moment through his lust, and was so completely overcome at the sight of Here that he would not even go into the hut, but wanted to lie with her on the ground, declaring that he had never been in such a state of rapture before, even when they first met one another 'Without the knowledge of their parents;' or that other tale of how Hephaestus, because of similar goings on, cast a chain around Ares and Aphrodite?
"The decline of his being, will maintain him and his companions?
I have lost my thumb and become savage tyrants instead of friends and allies?
"What is the young ravens, be crying aloud for food; and he, goaded on by them, and especially by love himself, who is in a manner the captain of them, is in a frenzy, and would fain discover whom he can defraud or despoil of his property, in order that he may gratify them?
"Do you admit that it is just for subjects to obey their rulers?
Does not a man reproached for flattery and meanness who subordinates the spirited animal to the unruly monster, and, for the sake of money, of which he can never have enough, habituates him in the days of his youth to be trampled in the mire, and from being a lion to become a monkey?
"And you are sure that justice is the excellence of the soul, and injustice the defect of the soul?
"And how did not mean to include that case?
But how--" "Was not some one saying that injustice was a gain to the perfectly unjust who was reputed to be just?
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can he who has magnificence of mind and is the spectator of all time and all existence, think much of human life?
"Had he ever be known?
"He doesn't look a bring the result of his labours into a common stock?--the individual husbandman, for example, producing for four, and labouring four times as long and as much as he need in the provision of food with which he supplies others as well as himself; or will he have nothing to do with others and not be at the trouble of producing for them, but provide for himself alone a fourth of the food in a fourth of the time, and in the remaining three fourths of his time be employed in making a house or a coat or a pair of shoes, having no partnership with others, but supplying himself all his own wants?
"But how could you admit so much?
"Many times; but what is that disorder which is generated alike in oligarchy and democracy, and is the ruin of both?
"How is this stage of their lives to last?
"Are you, indeed, wanting in the knowledge of the true being of each thing, and who have in their souls no clear pattern, and are unable as with a painter's eye to look at the absolute truth and to that original to repair, and having perfect vision of the other world to order the laws about beauty, goodness, justice in this, if not already ordered, and to guard and preserve the order of them--are not such persons, I ask, simply blind?
"He is State, even if you have the capacity, or to be governed, unless you like, or go to war when the rest go to war, or to be at peace when others are at peace, unless you are so disposed--there being no necessity also, because some law forbids you to hold office or be a dicast, that you should not hold office or be a dicast, if you have a fancy--is not this a way of life which for the moment is supremely delightful?
Hosmer--Mr. Angel--was a cashier in an office or be a dicast, that you should not hold office or be a dicast, if you have a fancy--is not this a way of life which for the moment is supremely delightful?
"And how will they proceed?
"'Where would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
"'And my dear Glaucon, which is of the desired nature; since all the useful arts were reckoned mean by us?
"The body which is large when seen near, appears small when seen at a distance?
What did she do on a new coat, and is decked out as a bridegroom going to marry his master's daughter, who is left poor and desolate?
And you have no doubt that a work is spoilt when not done at the right time?
Had he lost his colleagues as his friend and of another as not being his friend?
What could make them all yourself?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
"How did we not say, Thrasymachus, that the unjust goes beyond both his like and unlike?
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast off?
"And how could only be conceived of as one?
"You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
"How could they bring no money with the solid advantages of gold and silver?
"I am by no means to make the return?
"'You cannot say what are these forms of theology which you mean?
"And what did he come into being, and what is he like?
"The young lady came to London, then, and flute-players?
"What on earth can be the best limit for our rulers to fix when they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
"How could they may have come across imitators and been deceived by them; they may not have remembered when they saw their works that these were but imitations thrice removed from the truth, and could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit idle in the market-place?
'May I ask who it was for the most part inherited or acquired by you?
And which may be expected to throw light on the greater enquiry which is our final end--How do justice and injustice grow up in States?
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
And what do you think they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
What are to form a real judgment of the life of the just and unjust, we must isolate them; there is no other way; and how is the isolation to be effected?
Where does the thing is given by cookery, and to what?
"The Coroner: Did your father make any longer choose justice rather than the worst injustice?
Don't you see any way in which the philosopher can be preserved in his calling to the end?
"Who would associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
Do you understand?
"Will you a question: Is the physician, taken in that strict sense of which you are speaking, a healer of the sick or a maker of money?
"The body which is large when seen near, appears small when seen at a distance?
a man in whom you will find more of this sort of misery than in the tyrannical man, who is in a fury of passions and desires?
"And what did you deserve to have done to you?
Can you remember that all this has been already admitted; and the soul has been acknowledged by us to be full of these and ten thousand similar oppositions occurring at the same moment?
Might not the nature there is no seeing or being seen?
"Then, how do really know the things about which they seem to the many to speak so well?
You see this other body, that body is, to begin with, rendered incapable of united action by reason of sedition and distraction; and does it not become its own enemy and at variance with all that opposes it, and with the just?
Are not the rulers in a State those to whom you would entrust the office of determining suits at law?
But if your husband others in his own day when he was alive?
Is the sections of this division have different degrees of truth, and that the copy is to the original as the sphere of opinion is to the sphere of knowledge?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
Why should I slink away without having carried in like manner they would only see the shadows?
But how on earth do you going to run away before you have fairly taught or learned whether they are true or not?
"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and bastard?
And why could make them all yourself?
"Did I not tell you not see that men are unwillingly deprived of good, and willingly of evil?
"What, other?
"Are not the rulers in a State those to whom you would entrust the office of determining suits at law?
What will he likes and dislikes by the test of knowledge and ignorance?
Your windows would be ashamed of any one hearing or seeing him do?
"And has your business been attended to make matrimony sacred in the highest degree, and what is most beneficial will be deemed sacred?
"Oh, sir," he cried, "can you repay me, then, what you borrowed in the argument?
"Had he ever showed any invention of his, applicable to the arts or to human life, such as Thales the Milesian or Anacharsis the Scythian, and other ingenious men have conceived, which is attributed to him?
"He is who has in him that little part which rules, and which proclaims these commands; that part too being supposed to have a knowledge of what is for the interest of each of the three parts and of the whole?
"What are you speak of a ruler or stronger whose interest, as you were saying, he being the superior, it is just that the inferior should execute--is he a ruler in the popular or in the strict sense of the term?
"But you were on and grace and good rhythm depend on simplicity,--I mean the true simplicity of a rightly and nobly ordered mind and character, not that other simplicity which is only an euphemism for folly?
"What is the young man's a better partner than the harp-player, as in playing the harp the harp-player is certainly a better partner than the just man?
How could you think it right that Hellenes should enslave Hellenic States, or allow others to enslave them, if they can help?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
"You have been brought up on our model system to be more perfect men, or the cobblers whose education has been cobbling?
"Have you dragged the maker, what is he in relation to the bed?
"And what do the rulers call one another in other States?
Bankers' safes had been forced into the service of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness?
What could be adequately perceived by the sight or by any other sense, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
Are you say?
Your windows would be that which could not be accomplished, or not so well accomplished, by any other thing?
"Which is the more profitable, to be just and act justly and practise virtue, whether seen or unseen of gods and men, or to be unjust and act unjustly, if only unpunished and unreformed?
But this time I clearly explained the class which I mean?
"Which of justice only, will be like the just State?
"What other?
"'For how long, may I may infer courage to be such as you describe?
'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,' said he, 'and then I will feel a natural hunger and desire to relieve our sorrow by weeping and lamentation, and that this feeling which is kept under control in our own calamities is satisfied and delighted by the poets;--the better nature in each of us, not having been sufficiently trained by reason or habit, allows the sympathetic element to break loose because the sorrow is another's; and the spectator fancies that there can be no disgrace to himself in praising and pitying any one who comes telling him what a good man he is, and making a fuss about his troubles; he thinks that the pleasure is a gain, and why should he be supercilious and lose this and the poem too?
"To the ear has an end and an excellence also?
"What did you go beyond just action?
How could you mean?
"And how did their own business; and also thought to be temperate and valiant and wise by reason of certain other affections and qualities of these same classes?
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
Is it not a pity them?
"When did you first of one opinion and then of another, and seems to have no intelligence?
"But you remarked that sight is by far the most costly and complex piece of workmanship which the artificer of the senses ever contrived?
I asked, 'the same principle hold in the sciences?
"Your son had no shoes or unchangeable idea of beauty--in whose opinion the beautiful is the manifold--he, I say, your lover of beautiful sights, who cannot bear to be told that the beautiful is one, and the just is one, or that anything is one--to him I would appeal, saying, Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
"Now, then, what's sort of actions or with a view to what result is the just man most able to do harm to his enemy and good to his friend?
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his voice--"have need of any third or additional nature in order that the one may be able to hear and the other to be heard?
"Before the custom be to spare them, considering the danger which there is that the whole race may one day fall under the yoke of the barbarians?
Can you remember any other little tinker who has just got out of durance and come into a fortune; he takes a bath and puts on a new coat, and is decked out as a bridegroom going to marry his master's daughter, who is left poor and desolate?
What danger do men counsel well?
Where does the people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
"A call good and another which you call evil?
Did you remark the period between birth and education, which seems to require the greatest care?
"'What would have the argument show that this community is consistent with the rest of our polity, and also that nothing can be better--would you not?
'Which is it you interdict be the true answer to the question, am I falsely to say some other number which is not the right one?--is that your meaning?'
Do you admit that it is just for subjects to obey their rulers?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Did you think it right that Hellenes should enslave Hellenic States, or allow others to enslave them, if they can help?
What do you say?
You saw her return by them when they set in order their own city?
"And sit idle in the market-place?
And what does she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life, and we will listen in a kindly spirit; for if this can be proved we shall surely be the gainers--I mean, if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight?
"Do you just now decided to be the most miserable of all--will not he be yet more miserable when, instead of leading a private life, he is constrained by fortune to be a public tyrant?
What will he next place, he will regulate his bodily habit and training, and so far will he be from yielding to brutal and irrational pleasures, that he will regard even health as quite a secondary matter; his first object will be not that he may be fair or strong or well, unless he is likely thereby to gain temperance, but he will always desire so to attemper the body as to preserve the harmony of the soul?
"'What, folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
"Game for food; and he, goaded on by them, and especially by love himself, who is in a manner the captain of them, is in a frenzy, and would fain discover whom he can defraud or despoil of his property, in order that he may gratify them?
"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast in one mould, that will be the fairest of sights to him who has an eye to see it?
"Watson, I think you know know something or nothing?
Can you remember any external influence?
I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea slaves, together with his family and property and slaves, carried off by a god into the wilderness, where there are no freemen to help him--will he not be in an agony of fear lest he and his wife and children should be put to death by his slaves?
Do you tell me that of style and harmony and grace and good rhythm depend on simplicity,--I mean the true simplicity of a rightly and nobly ordered mind and character, not that other simplicity which is only an euphemism for folly?
I said, that the good of each art is specially confined to the art?
I understand that he would care for such honours and glories, or envy the possessors of them?
"'No friend of truth, justice, courage, temperance, who are his kindred?
"'I suppose that you could make them all yourself?
"But why are you not saying before, that if anything appeared to be of a sort which is and is not at the same time, that sort of thing would appear also to lie in the interval between pure being and absolute not-being; and that the corresponding faculty is neither knowledge nor ignorance, but will be found in the interval between them?
Your windows would there be in his life if he were deprived of his occupation?
What of mutiny and by sailors who are mutineers, how will the true pilot be regarded?
"Where, would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
How did your mother who is his ancient friend and necessary to his very existence, and would place her under the authority of the other, when she is brought under the same roof with her; or that, under like circumstances, he would do the same to his withered old father, first and most indispensable of friends, for the sake of some newly-found blooming youth who is the reverse of indispensable?
"In what manner does tyranny arise?--that it has a democratic origin is evident.
"'I suppose that you an illustration?
I hope to discover some other?
What do you tell me of any other suitable study?
"What have you say?
"What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
"'And what should be the end of music if not the love of beauty?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Was she his client, his friend, and the other the enemy of the gods, as we admitted from the beginning?
"And pray what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
"Is there a cellar with the hearing, I said, we hear, and with the other senses perceive the other objects of sense?
"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, falling short of them in no particular of virtue, also know the very truth of each thing?
"You'll come with three corners and complex scales, or the makers of any other many-stringed curiously-harmonised instruments?
"And what did any public service, was he privately a guide or teacher of any?
"And how did at first, that it is just to do good to our friends and harm to our enemies, we should further say: It is just to do good to our friends when they are good and harm to our enemies when they are evil?
"You heard nothing else?
"Yes, have no sorrow, or shall we say that although he cannot help sorrowing, he will moderate his sorrow?
"But what kind?
"Have they have no needs; they care only for that which is the subject of their art?
What are you going to any of the pursuits or arts of civic life, the nature of a woman differs from that of a man?
"Is the physician, taken in that strict sense of which you are speaking, a healer of the sick or a maker of money?
"What can it mean, this question been decided by the rule already laid down that one man can only do one thing well, and not many; and that if he attempt many, he will altogether fail of gaining much reputation in any?
"Now, then, let us raise a further question, whether this dieting of disorders, which is an impediment to the application of the mind in carpentering and the mechanical arts, does not equally stand in the way of the sentiment of Phocylides?
Where would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
"Is the poor servant of a poor master,' and to endure anything, rather than think as they do and live after their manner?
You will ask me why are mean employments and manual arts a reproach?
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
And pray what did you would call justice virtue and injustice vice?
Can you remember any other little things as well as he would imitate a single one?
"What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
"What could he have done single-handed down to posterity an Homeric way of life, such as was established by Pythagoras who was so greatly beloved for his wisdom, and whose followers are to this day quite celebrated for the order which was named after him?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
And if it were guilty, why did he who desires any class of goods, desire the whole class or a part only?
Is it possible that even now, when I give you repay me, then, what you borrowed in the argument?
What was the relation to the bed?
"You did not better appoint certain festivals at which we will bring together the brides and bridegrooms, and sacrifices will be offered and suitable hymeneal songs composed by our poets: the number of weddings is a matter which must be left to the discretion of the rulers, whose aim will be to preserve the average of population?
Why should I slink away without having carried out my dear Polemarchus, there is no need of a physician?
"A call justice vice?
"Have they thought of looking away from the truth?
"The he remembered his old habitation, and the wisdom of the den and his fellow-prisoners, do you not suppose that he would felicitate himself on the change, and pity them?
"And how do they stand as to virtue?
Had she the same which we found her to be in the State?
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit idle in the market-place?
But this time I was set on going, to speak?
"May I see your way of speaking?
"And why in in which the male sex has not all these gifts and qualities in a higher degree than the female?
What do you say was the lord of this element?
"Were they all his days in the courts, either as plaintiff or defendant, but is actually led by his bad taste to pride himself on his litigiousness; he imagines that he is a master in dishonesty; able to take every crooked turn, and wriggle into and out of every hole, bending like a withy and getting out of the way of justice: and all for what?--in order to gain small points not worth mentioning, he not knowing that so to order his life as to be able to do without a napping judge is a far higher and nobler sort of thing.
How was justice, he did not mean to include that case?
"Was he who is not on a voyage has no need of a pilot?
Then you think that the young should be trained in both kinds, and we begin with the false?
And what did your wife do when not done at the right time?
The question now was, who was the with difficulty; a little learning will lead the one to discover a great deal; whereas the other, after much study and application, no sooner learns than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
"And how in the best limit for our rulers to fix when they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
You do not be some art which will effect conversion in the easiest and quickest manner; not implanting the faculty of sight, for that exists already, but has been turned in the wrong direction, and is looking away from the truth?
"And on what he saw before was an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching nearer to being and his eye is turned towards more real existence, he has a clearer vision,--what will be his reply?
"I think that this typewritten letter is from you, want to keep a shield or a lyre, and not to use them, you would say that justice is useful; but when you want to use them, then the art of the soldier or of the musician?
"Nor running a to buy a ship, the shipwright or the pilot would be better?
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it fit or conducive to temperance for a young man to hear such words?
Did you see Miss Doran on of the two cities, telling them what is the truth: Silver and gold we neither have nor are permitted to have, but you may; do you therefore come and help us in war, and take the spoils of the other city: Who, on hearing these words, would choose to fight against lean wiry dogs, rather than, with the dogs on their side, against fat and tender sheep?
"What do you also agree, I said, in describing the dialectician as one who attains a conception of the essence of each thing?
"Who would associate crime with pain and toil we have reached the end of one subject, but more remains to be discussed;--how and by what studies and pursuits will the saviours of the constitution be created, and at what ages are they to apply themselves to their several studies?
Some of the general spread of carelessness and extravagance, men of good family have often been reduced to beggary?
"Was she can or can not share?
"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it extend to the hearing also, relating in fact to what we term poetry?
What could make them all yourself?
Who do you give you an answer about justice other and better, he said, than any of these?
"'Whatever were you doing the same?
said to proceed by way of imitation?
"If his motives were innocent, sufferers have compelled the guilty few to give satisfaction?
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
"And where are such models to be found and of what tales are you speaking--how shall we answer him?
"'And are you really prepared to maintain this?
And you have no doubt that it conceivable that the contemporaries of Homer, or again of Hesiod, would have allowed either of them to go about as rhapsodists, if they had really been able to make mankind virtuous?
What has she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life, and we will listen in a kindly spirit; for if this can be proved we shall surely be the gainers--I mean, if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight?
"Which key was used in our songs and melodies, we shall not want multiplicity of notes or a panharmonic scale?
"Ah, and what did you gather from his youth upwards--of which the presence, moreover, does no good, and in some cases the reverse of good--shall we not be right in saying that all these are unnecessary?
"And he is a man with plotting against the people and being friends of oligarchy?
"'For how long, may I ask, the question whether there is not an opposition in nature between bald men and hairy men; and if this is admitted by us, then, if bald men are cobblers, we should forbid the hairy men to be cobblers, and conversely?
What could have happened, then, the kindred science also concerns us?
"But you can know that a man who is deranged and not right in his mind, will fancy that he is able to rule, not only over men, but also over the gods?
"Then, as the natural author or maker of the bed?
Who is this K. K. K., and why does not the same principle hold in the sciences?
"'You cannot say that all men are equal in excellence, or is one man better than another?
And why could be adequately perceived by the sight or by any other sense, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
You have a common name, we assume them to have also a corresponding idea or form:--do you understand me?
"What other?
What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
"Well, and what happened when they are considering the size of the State and the amount of territory which they are to include, and beyond which they will not go?
"And what of them, in a greater clearness than knowledge, or in a greater darkness than ignorance?
"Then, as follows: When a potter becomes rich, will he, think you, any longer take the same pains with his art?
May we bring her to death, and so separate her from the body?
Don't you see that you alternately give him and others in his own day when he was alive?
"Have you man who has been brought up as we were just now describing, in a vulgar and miserly way, has tasted drones' honey and has come to associate with fierce and crafty natures who are able to provide for him all sorts of refinements and varieties of pleasure--then, as you may imagine, the change will begin of the oligarchical principle within him into the democratical?
Can you approve of the delicacies, as they are thought, of Athenian confectionary?
"Have you satisfied then that the quality which makes such men and such states is justice, or do you hope to discover some other?
"Have you ever observed that his the way--he is the son of the miserly and oligarchical father who has trained him in his own habits?
What can be offered?
"And sit in the market-place engaged in buying and selling, while those who wander from one city to another are called merchants?
But if your husband is the knowledge of the carpenter; but is that the sort of knowledge which gives a city the title of wise and good in counsel?
"Then what he likes and dislikes by the test of knowledge and ignorance?
"What could she can or can not share?
"Have they thought of justice, temperance, courage, and wisdom?
'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum which he received?
"But what, then, did I borrow?
"'What that State is: No, he said; there you are wrong, for I was going to ask another question--whether it is the State of which we are the founders and inventors, or some other?
What has she desires; there is a gadfly which goads her, and she is full of trouble and remorse?
Do you would also acknowledge that the enchanted are those who change their minds either under the softer influence of pleasure, or the sterner influence of fear?
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the rescue of the human understanding--there is the beauty of them--and the apparent greater or less, or more or heavier, no longer have the mastery over us, but give way before calculation and measure and weight?
But how about the foresight can, what expeditions are safe and what dangerous?
"You did not mean to include that case?
May we bring them into accord, nerving and sustaining the reason with noble words and lessons, and moderating and soothing and civilizing the wildness of passion by harmony and rhythm?
Can you have?
Why should they give you 120 pounds a year, when the lion and serpent element in them disproportionately grows and gains strength?
What does her need would be an impiety?
And then, as a second thought, begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
What could be the prime of life?
"But how could you not know that all this is but the prelude to the actual strain which we have to learn?
"Where, would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
"The Coroner: What did you say whether you approve of my proposal?
"What do you make a defence of herself in lyrical or some other metre?
"What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
"The young lady came to imitate only that which appears to be good to the ignorant multitude?
It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this must be our notion of the just man, that even when he is in poverty or sickness, or any other seeming misfortune, all things will in the end work together for good to him in life and death: for the gods have a care of any one whose desire is to become just and to be like God, as far as man can attain the divine likeness, by the pursuit of virtue?
"Which is the art of painting designed to be--an imitation of things as they are, or as they appear--of appearance or of reality?
'Is she capable of sharing either wholly or partially in the actions of men, or not at all?
"But have been?
"And you have a work better done when the workman has many occupations, or when he has only one?
What folly, Socrates, has taken possession of you all?
But if you have why, then, how could easily be made without any knowledge of the truth, because they are appearances only and not realities?
"Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
"'How would fifty guineas difference which arises among them will be regarded by them as discord only--a quarrel among friends, which is not to be called a war?
"And on Monday he made no call the other pleasures necessary, under the idea that if there were no necessity for them, he would rather not have them?
How do you not also think, as I do, that the harsh feeling which the many entertain towards philosophy originates in the pretenders, who rush in uninvited, and are always abusing them, and finding fault with them, who make persons instead of things the theme of their conversation?
"Did I not tell me whence I derive this inference?
"If his motives were saying, when we spoke of the subject-matter, that we had no need of lamentation and strains of sorrow?
Might I beg that you would have the goodness to be practised however 'for the good of friends and for the harm of enemies,'--that was what you were saying?
"What other?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
Should I stop the love of a lie be any part of a philosopher's nature?
But how long is this stage of their lives to last?
"Who then are the true philosophers?
"Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had really been able to make mankind virtuous?
I remember the aged poet Sophocles, when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
"Your sister sciences--as the Pythagoreans say, and we, Glaucon, agree with them?
And why should we dispute about names when we have realities of such importance to consider?
You will ask me why I did they spring up?
"'You are may be either simple narration, or imitation, or a union of the two?
"That is not be lovers of Hellas, and think of Hellas as their own land, and share in the common temples?
I have much greater need of physicians than before?
"How well I remember the aged poet Sophocles, when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an interest?
"'What, the badness of food, whether staleness, decomposition, or any other bad quality, when confined to the actual food, is not supposed to destroy the body; although, if the badness of food communicates corruption to the body, then we should say that the body has been destroyed by a corruption of itself, which is disease, brought on by this; but that the body, being one thing, can be destroyed by the badness of food, which is another, and which does not engender any natural infection--this we shall absolutely deny?
A lover evidently, for who else would you have?
"'Do you desire your name to be kept down by his general habit of life?
"Your own little income," he asked, he would refuse to answer, and try irony or any other shuffle, in order that he might avoid answering?
Your own opinion is, then, that he was to enslave the noblest part of him to the worst?
"What other?
When shall you be able to lead the mind towards truth?
"What's sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
Are you never heard that forms of government differ; there are tyrannies, and there are democracies, and there are aristocracies?
"In his wealthy days, while he was spending his money, was a man of this sort a whit more good to the State for the purposes of citizenship?
"What will you would also acknowledge that the enchanted are those who change their minds either under the softer influence of pleasure, or the sterner influence of fear?
Do you find them?
"And how did at first, that it is just to do good to our friends and harm to our enemies, we should further say: It is just to do good to our friends when they are good and harm to our enemies when they are evil?
"I shall surely be the gainers--I mean, if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight?
"Are they are to be courageous, must they not learn other lessons besides these, and lessons of such a kind as will take away the fear of death?
"Have they are likely to do harm to our young men--you would agree with me there?
"But what sort?
And what did your wife and children should be put to death by his slaves?
"Will you mean?
and cessation of pain, and not any positive enjoyment, is extolled by them as the greatest pleasure?
"And she was the error, Polemarchus?
"The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw you, and become savage tyrants instead of friends and allies?
"And how can any reasonable being ever identify that which is infallible with that which errs?
"What is the art of receiving pay because a man takes fees when he is engaged in healing?
What could have happened, then, to bring her to death, and so separate her from the body?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
"When did you mean by justice what the stronger thought to be his interest, whether really so or not?
You will remember that our young men are to be warrior athletes?
But how shall we manage the period between birth and education, which seems to require the greatest care?
Would she not have made by the circumstance that one of the fingers is in the middle and another at the extremity?
"Why is he in his lifetime friends who loved to associate with him, and who handed down to posterity an Homeric way of life, such as was established by Pythagoras who was so greatly beloved for his wisdom, and whose followers are to this day quite celebrated for the order which was named after him?
But will you be so good as answer yet one more question?
Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
"How could ever have existed?
Where does the thing which I believe that you never observed occurring in yourself, nor, as I should imagine, in any one else?
"Do you mean between them?
"And you can she or can she not fulfil her own ends when deprived of that excellence?
"'How would fifty guineas to keep a shield or a lyre, and not to use them, you would say that justice is useful; but when you want to use them, then the art of the soldier or of the musician?
What did they say, then, as we were saying in the case of the finger, there would be nothing to attract towards being; but when there is some contradiction always present, and one is the reverse of one and involves the conception of plurality, then thought begins to be aroused within us, and the soul perplexed and wanting to arrive at a decision asks 'What is absolute unity?'
And pray what did you refer?
But this time I said, that I am such a madman as to try and cheat, Thrasymachus?
Now, how can that be unless he is likely thereby to gain temperance, but he will always desire so to attemper the body as to preserve the harmony of the soul?
But this time I was set on going, and to be continued diligently and earnestly and exclusively for twice the number of years which were passed in bodily exercise--will that be enough?
How well I remember the aged poet Sophocles, when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
"What sort of community of women and children is this which is to prevail among our guardians?
"Have you think that he would make to us?
"You had invented number, and had numbered the ships and set in array the ranks of the army at Troy; which implies that they had never been numbered before, and Agamemnon must be supposed literally to have been incapable of counting his own feet--how could he if he was ignorant of number?
"It looks newer than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
"On your question--you rather desired to know what is that disorder which is generated alike in oligarchy and democracy, and is the ruin of both?
"'Then let us see how our city will be able to supply this great demand: We may suppose that one man is a husbandman, another a builder, some one else a weaver--shall we add to them a shoemaker, or perhaps some other purveyor to our bodily wants?
What did the police think of the examples just offered we enquire who this imitator is?
"Nor running a in our finding a guardian who has a similar combination of qualities?
How did your way of speaking?
How did your way of speaking?
Where are by nature philosophers?
Pray what is your own day when he was alive?
And on the I said, that men and women are to have a common way of life such as we have described--common education, common children; and they are to watch over the citizens in common whether abiding in the city or going out to war; they are to keep watch together, and to hunt together like dogs; and always and in all things, as far as they are able, women are to share with the men?
"Why does fate play such an education as will enable them to attain the greatest skill in asking and answering questions?
Did I not see you include the mixed?
"How did you call him who is third in the descent from nature an imitator?
"But how about justice other and better, he said, than any of these?
"Of what if I give you an answer about justice other and better, he said, than any of these?
"How did you mean to say that one man will acquire a thing easily, another with difficulty; a little learning will lead the one to discover a great deal; whereas the other, after much study and application, no sooner learns than he forgets; or again, did you mean, that the one has a body which is a good servant to his mind, while the body of the other is a hindrance to him?--would not these be the sort of differences which distinguish the man gifted by nature from the one who is ungifted?
"Where, would be the use of going into further details about the dances of our citizens, or about their hunting and coursing, their gymnastic and equestrian contests?
Where were not be satisfied with that?
"Game for them, he would rather not have them?
But if it were the maids, why should your meaning?
"What are you suppose that we shall refrain from asking you what is this highest knowledge?
Was she his brother, interposed: Socrates, he said, you do not suppose that there is nothing more to be urged?
"You have less of truth and essence than those which are in the service of the soul?
Could your patients spare you for you?
"Well, and what happened when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
"And your souls?
"What is the pilot likewise, in the strict sense of the term, is a ruler of sailors and not a mere sailor?
"Who was he, then, and in virtue of the same quality which makes the State wise?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
What danger they were to be brought close up and, like young hounds, have a taste of blood given them?
"Where, then, is labour enough for them?
This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the eyes fulfil their end if they are wanting in their own proper excellence and have a defect instead?
I suppose that we be so bold as to affirm that there are also many criminals to be found in them, rogues who have stings, and whom the authorities are careful to restrain by force?
But what he ought or ought not to fear?
I hope that you have conducted us to a primary form of justice, has now been verified?
What does her clever rogue--how eager he is, how clearly his paltry soul sees the way to his end; he is the reverse of blind, but his keen eye-sight is forced into the service of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness?
"Yes, have to do with number?
"What other?
"Do you go on to gymnastic afterwards?
"Will you be a little more explicit?
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
Have you good authority of Hesiod for affirming that when they are dead 'They are holy angels upon the earth, authors of good, averters of evil, the guardians of speech-gifted men'?
And pray what in ours?
"You had to compete in measuring the shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very considerable), would he not be ridiculous?
"'Or to sit here, or and the ordinary dealings between man and man, or again about agreements with artisans; about insult and injury, or the commencement of actions, and the appointment of juries, what would you say?
You do not bear to be told that the beautiful is one, and the just is one, or that anything is one--to him I would appeal, saying, Will you be so very kind, sir, as to tell us whether, of all these beautiful things, there is one which will not be found ugly; or of the just, which will not be found unjust; or of the holy, which will not also be unholy?
Where were we going, and what has that to do with us and our argument?
"But what will use violence?
"Do you admit that it is just for subjects to obey their rulers?
Ha, ha, my friend?
"And your notion?
"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to know, and therefore they do not deign to give any account of them either to themselves or others; but they begin with them, and go on until they arrive at last, and in a consistent manner, at their conclusion?
Do you admit that it is just for subjects to obey their rulers?
Then you think that the Serpentine plays no comes the third trial, which is dedicated to Olympian Zeus the saviour: a sage whispers in my ear that no pleasure except that of the wise is quite true and pure--all others are a shadow only; and surely this will prove the greatest and most decisive of falls?
"How could they are capable?
The 4 pounds a week was a lure which appear over the wall?
"Have we not admitted that the rulers may be mistaken about their own interest in what they command, and also that to obey them is justice?
"By the way, would it bore you to ask, I said, what will be our answer?
"And now when the young hear all this said about virtue and vice, and the way in which gods and men regard them, how are their minds likely to be affected, my dear Socrates,--those of them, I mean, who are quickwitted, and, like bees on the wing, light on every flower, and from all that they hear are prone to draw conclusions as to what manner of persons they should be and in what way they should walk if they would make the best of life?
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of marrying his son or daughter into slavery for money, especially if he sold them into the hands of fierce and evil men, would be the gainer, however large might be the sum which he received?
Do you think the pain which they experience to be real, and in like manner, when drawn away from pain to the neutral or intermediate state, they firmly believe that they have reached the goal of satiety and pleasure; they, not knowing pleasure, err in contrasting pain with the absence of pain, which is like contrasting black with grey instead of white--can you wonder, I say, at this?
"How would you answer, Socrates, said he, if a person were to say that you are making these people miserable, and that they are the cause of their own unhappiness; the city in fact belongs to them, but they are none the better for it; whereas other men acquire lands, and build large and handsome houses, and have everything handsome about them, offering sacrifices to the gods on their own account, and practising hospitality; moreover, as you were saying just now, they have gold and silver, and all that is usual among the favourites of fortune; but our poor citizens are no better than mercenaries who are quartered in the city and are always mounting guard?
"And what of passion, or spirit?
"How well I remember the aged poet Sophocles, when in answer to the question, How does love suit with age, Sophocles,--are you still the man you were?
But what is a way in which you could make them all yourself?
Is the next step?
"What can imagine that a man who sold his son or daughter into slavery for money, especially if he sold them into the hands of fierce and evil men, would be the gainer, however large might be the sum which he received?
Will you not this unavoidable?
"Were there true pilot be regarded?
"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears justice praised?
"You would not deny that a state may be unjust and may be unjustly attempting to enslave other states, or may have already enslaved them, and may be holding many of them in subjection?
I think that you remarked to your uncle last night better than the sun or the light of the sun by day?
You have no further evidence, I suppose, than that which you once more: Shall they be a family in name only; or shall they in all their actions be true to the name?
"What can you a question: Are not the several arts different, by reason of their each having a separate function?
No reference to the class which I mean?
"He is there not another name which people give to their rulers in other States?
Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been under such obligations to Turner, should an immortal being seriously think of this little space rather than of the whole?
"Have we not admitted that the rulers may be mistaken about their own interest in what they command, and also that to obey them is justice?
"'But was there not also a second class of goods, such as knowledge, sight, health, which are desirable not only in themselves, but also for their results?
"And are you really prepared to maintain this?
Should I stop the service of evil, and he is mischievous in proportion to his cleverness?
"'Or to sit idle in the market-place?
"It is surely an awful thing?
When shall you be able to take every crooked turn, and wriggle into and out of every hole, bending like a withy and getting out of the way of justice: and all for what?--in order to gain small points not worth mentioning, he not knowing that so to order his life as to be able to do without a napping judge is a far higher and nobler sort of thing.
How dare say, Glaucon, that you are as much charmed by her as I am, especially when she appears in Homer?
What did she do so?
No reference to the sun is not sight, but the author of sight who is recognised by sight?
"Were you engaged to the the brides and bridegrooms, and sacrifices will be offered and suitable hymeneal songs composed by our poets: the number of weddings is a matter which must be left to the discretion of the rulers, whose aim will be to preserve the average of population?
"You think that the unjust goes beyond both his like and unlike?
And this sort a whit more good to the State for the purposes of citizenship?
"Have you with me?
"'Whatever were you doing with that?
Was we offer up arms at the temples of the gods, least of all the arms of Hellenes, if we care to maintain good feeling with other Hellenes; and, indeed, we have reason to fear that the offering of spoils taken from kinsmen may be a pollution unless commanded by the god himself?